Pages : 33

=== PAGE 1 ===
Sustainability Report
Academic Years 2021-2022 & 2022-2023

=== PAGE 2 ===
2
3
Foreword by Dean Francisco Veloso ..................................................................................4
Our Report in a Glance.........................................................................................................6
The Business School for the World…...................................................................................8
A community acting on transformation for good…..........................................................10
Leadership..........................................................................................................................12
Our approach to Sustainability..........................................................................................14
Impact.................................................................................................................................16
	
1. Knowledge.................................................................................................................17
	
2. Learning.....................................................................................................................24
	
3. Engagement..............................................................................................................34
	
4. Walk the Talk.............................................................................................................41
About this Report................................................................................................................55
Content Index......................................................................................................................58
Table of Contents

=== PAGE 3 ===
4
5
GRI 2-22
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 1
As the new Dean of INSEAD, it is a pleasure to 
contribute the foreword to this Sustainability 
Report – Academic Years 2021-2022 & 2022-2023, 
which details how INSEAD continues to fulfil our 
strong commitment to integrate sustainability into 
business education. 
The last three years have been incredibly challenging 
from a global perspective for many reasons. The 
pandemic, geopolitical tensions and conflicts and 
rapid digital transformation have all brought their own 
pressures and challenges. 
However, while acknowledging and responding to 
these issues, it’s also important that they don’t deflect 
our focus from the need to work together to build a 
more equitable and more sustainable society.  
Sustainability has a long history at INSEAD. For more 
than 60 years, our school has played an important 
role in bringing together people, cultures and ideas to 
develop business leaders who understand the links 
between business, environment and society.
This report communicates the school’s own social, 
economic, and environmental impacts using the Global 
Reporting Initiative Standards and related frameworks, 
such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals, the 
UN Academic Impact principles, and the UN Principles 
for Responsible Management Education (PRME).
2023 saw INSEAD celebrate five years of Sustainability 
in Action through a Business and Society Summit in 
June 2023. This marked the ideal time to reflect on 
the challenges and milestones achieved in positioning 
INSEAD as a leader in future-focused and responsible 
management education.
This report demonstrates the great progress made in 
many areas. Our faculty have shown a commitment to 
using their research for real-world impact, publishing 
26 cases and 60 articles addressing sustainability and 
related topics in the last three academic years. 
Through new Executive Education Programmes and 
a new MBA Curriculum, in which all core courses now 
address sustainability issues, our teaching and course 
content has adapted to ensure that we are giving 
future and current business leaders the relevant tools 
and knowledge they need to see today’s challenges as 
opportunities.  
And, importantly we have shown a willingness to 
work with others, by looking to collaborate with fellow 
business schools and global organisations like the 
UN, to address issues such as climate change, gender 
inequality and sustainability.
I have been greatly encouraged by how our diverse 
alumni community have shown their capacity as 
responsible leaders who embrace the potential of 
business as a force for good and continue to support 
the school as we strive to walk the talk. 
It’s truly heartening to see all the hard work that has 
already taken place over the last three years. However, 
it’s equally important that we maintain this drive and 
commitment going forward. As a global leader in 
management education, it’s vital that we continue to 
play our part.
That’s why I invite all our students and stakeholders, all 
our participants and partners, to spend time exploring 
this report. See how INSEAD is rising to the moment 
and how you can align with us in taking positive action. 
Every individual and every organization has a role to 
play and the time to step forward is now.
Francisco Veloso
Dean of INSEAD
Foreword by Dean 
Francisco Veloso

=== PAGE 4 ===
6
7
Promoted sustainability-
related topics at alumni 
events and via webinars with 
practitioners from various 
industries and sectors.
Engaged +3,700 participants at student-led events 
SDG Week, Health Week and Earth Week
Integrated Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
as a principle across multiple activities on 
awareness and human resources management.
Our Report at a Glance
43 
research projects funded with
+€960,000 
from the Business & Society R&D Fund
On Executive Education, launched the INSEAD Business 
Sustainability Programme and the INSEAD Hans H. Wahl 
Impact Entrepreneurship Programme
Reviewed the MBA curriculum to 
embed sustainability learning 
in all core courses and create a 
sustainability capstone course
+50 articles on Sustainability topics and 22 
articles of the Crossroads: Business and Society 
series on INSEAD Knowledge
Launched the  
Business Schools for 
Climate Leadership  
initiative with 
seven other leading 
business schools 
in Europe
Committed 
to reduce our 
Scope 1 and 2 
emissions by 
67% by 2035
Engaged in 
sustainable investment 
through our endowment
60 
Faculty-authored 
articles and 
26
 cases published on 
Sustainability topics
Health
Week

=== PAGE 5 ===
8
9
GRI 2-1, 2-6
PRME PRINCIPLE 2
We are INSEAD, the business school for the world. One 
of the world’s leading and largest graduate business 
schools, INSEAD operates across four locations – 
our Europe Campus in France, our Asia Campus in 
Singapore, our Middle East Campus in Abu Dhabi, 
and the San Francisco Hub for Business innovation 
in North America. Founded in 1957 1, we pursue a 
mission to bring together people, cultures and ideas to 
develop responsible leaders who transform business 
and society.
For more than 65 years, we have been guided by our 
founding values:
•	 Diversity as a source for innovation and creativity
•	 Independence to be agile, daring and responsive to 
global change
•	 Rigour and relevance in teaching and research
•	 Closeness to business around the world
•	 Entrepreneurial spirit that makes us bold, innovative 
and ready to take risks
INSEAD business education and research activities 
span the globe and engage ambitious and exceptional 
leaders around the globe as a force for change. Our 
learning community includes:
•	 159 faculty from 42 nationalities, 38 of them women 
(24%)
•	 Over 1,400 students in our advanced degree and 
PhD programmes
•	 More than 10,000 Executive Education programme 
participants each year
Our Programmes at a Glance
Master Degree 
Programmes
Master in Management (MIM)
Full-time
Location: Europe and Asia campuses, with optional study trips 
to Middle East campus, China and USA
Duration: 14 to 16 months
Master in Business 
Administration (MBA)
Full-time
Location: Europe or Asia campus
Duration: 10 months
Global Executive MBA 
(GEMBA)
Modular / Part-time
Location: Middle East, Europe and Asia campuses
Duration: 14 to 17 months
Tsinghua-INSEAD Executive 
MBA (TIEMBA)
Modular / Part-time
Location: China (Tsinghua); Middle East, Europe and Asia 
campuses
Duration: 22 months
Executive Master in Finance 
(EMFin)
Modular / Part-time
Location: Asia campus
Duration: 18 months
Executive Master in Change 
(EMC)
Modular / Part-time
Location: Europe and Asia campuses
Duration: 18 months
Executive 
Education
Open and Customised 
Programmes
Modular / Part-time
Location: Europe, Asia, Middle East campuses and North 
America, or blended
Duration: Flexible
Online Programmes
Part-time
Location: Online
Duration: Depending on the programme
Certificates
Part-time
Location: Online and/or on campus
Duration: Depending on the certificate’s requirements
Doctoral
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in 
Management
Full-time
Location: Europe and Asia campuses
Duration: 5 years
The Business School for 
the World…
1 Acronym for the original French name Institut Européen d’Administration des Affaires. 
The legacy of our academic programmes is embodied 
by our community of more than 67,600 alumni across 
179 countries with 169 nationalities, with volunteers 
running 49 National Alumni Associations (NAA) 
and 8 global clubs. Our 28 country contacts, acting 
in locations where there are no NAAs, also provide 
invaluable support to keep this network connected and 
active on the transformation of business and society.

=== PAGE 6 ===
10
11
In alignment with our institutional mission, promise 
and values, we strive to provide an educational 
environment where all members of our community 
behave with the highest standards of integrity and 
respect for others. We ensure this by developing 
and constantly reviewing our policies, codes and 
procedures, and ask our leadership teams, staff, 
faculty and students to adhere to these principles.
Code of Conduct
GRI 2-15, 2-23, 2-24
SDG  
16
The INSEAD Code of Conduct outlines points of 
reference for actions by employees, students and other 
programme participants, on their interactions with the 
rest of the community and with external stakeholders 
such as suppliers and partners. We expect individuals 
in our community to comply with these four principles 
and encourage others to do so as well:
Specific Codes of Conduct have been established 
for participants of our master programmes and our 
alumni community. These codes of conduct outline 
expected behaviour for students and graduates in their 
activities and interactions with the rest of the INSEAD 
community. Adherence to specific codes of conduct 
ensures that each participant’s learning experience 
develops in a positive environment.
We also expand the reach of our principles on integrity 
and ethics to our suppliers, via the INSEAD Supplier 
Code of Conduct. This document clearly states zero 
tolerance for child labour or forced labour and that our 
suppliers’ employees must be treated with respect 
without any form of threat, coercion, harassment or 
violence. Details of the Code can be found in the Walk 
the Talk section
Anti-Harassment Policy
To protect the physical and psychological well-being 
and integrity of individuals, we have issued an Anti-
Harassment Policy applicable to all members of our 
broad community, including third parties such as 
contractors, volunteers and visitors.
The policy considers discriminatory, sexual and moral 
types of harassment, defines them, establishes the 
procedure to denounce them, as well as the principles 
under which they will be handled and investigated. The 
document also includes protective measures for those 
issuing a complaint and disciplinary actions for those 
found responsible of harassment and/or other parties 
involved in the case.
In 2023, all staff were invited to follow an online 
learning module on the issue of anti-harassment.
Whistleblowing
GRI 2-16, 2-25, 2-26, 205-2, 205-3
SDG  
16
Our recently updated Whistleblowing Policy 
establishes criteria and procedures to report any 
alleged failure to comply with the INSEAD Code of 
Conduct or Anti-Harassment Policy, any criminal 
activity, professional malpractice or wrongdoing, or 
other similar acts specified under these policies. 
Any individual can report a wrongdoing via an online 
whistleblowing platform, phone hotline, or by mail to 
the General Counsel on any location.
GRI 406-1
SDGs  5
  
8
Two incidents of discrimination (on basis of race, 
color, sex, religion, political opinions, social origins, or 
nationality) were reported during the reporting period 
through the available channels. After investigations, 
these incidents were determined to be non-confirmed.
Additionally, one incident of discrimination 
reported during the academic year 2018-19 was 
closed in the reporting period and also concluded 
with a non-confirmed determination after an 
investigation process.
A community acting on 
transformation for good
We expect individuals to avoid conflicts of interest with 
suppliers, providers, clients and employees.
We expect individuals to respect the dignity and privacy 
of their fellows. We do not tolerate any form of assault, 
harassment, abuse or intimidation.
We expect our employees to protect our infrastructure 
and resources.
We expect individuals to be aware of all laws that apply 
in the countries we operate, avoiding deviations from 
proper conducts.
1. Fairness and lack of conflict of interest
3. Non-discrimination and respect for people
2. Respect for the school’s resources
4. Compliance with applicable laws

=== PAGE 7 ===
12
13
GRI 2-9, 2-10, 2-11
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 2
SDG  16
Board of Directors as of end of August 2023
INSEAD is governed by a Board of Directors, 
responsible for overseeing strategic decisions, 
financial decisions, budgets and end-of-year accounts, 
and appointing the Dean. This Board is composed of 
internationally recognised business leaders from a 
wide range of industry sectors and nationalities. Most 
are INSEAD alumni.
Members of the Board of Directors
•	 Chairman Andreas Jacobs MBA’90D, Member of the 
Board, Jacobs Holding AG
•	 Vice Chair Emma Goltz MBA’98J, Chair, INSEAD 
Alumni Fund
•	 Nabila Aguele MBA’14J, Special Adviser to the 
Honourable Minister, Federal Ministry of Finance, 
Budget and National Planning, Nigeria
•	 Jolyon Barker MBA’94D, Global Managing Principal, 
Clients & Industries, Deloitte
•	 Said Darwazah MBA’84, Executive Chairman, Hikma 
Pharmaceuticals PLC
•	 Arnoud De Meyer, Professor, Lee Kong Chian School 
of Business, Singapore Management University
•	 Patrick Firmenich MBA’90J, Vice-Chairman of the 
Board, DSM/Firmenich
•	 Adam Goldstein MBA’88J, Executive Chairman, DLT 
Global Inc.
•	 Alexis Habib MBA’81, CEO, Spinnaker Capital
•	 Philip Houzé MBA’74, Chairman of the Executive 
Board, Galeries Lafayette Group
•	 Christina Law MBA’91D, Group CEO, Raintree Group 
of Companies
•	 Chwee Foon Lim MBA’98D, CEO Asia Pacific, Ekso 
Bionics 2
•	 Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz MBA’94J, CEO and Managing 
Director, Mirvac Group Ltd
•	 Frédéric Mazzella MBA’07D, Founder and President, 
BlaBlaCar 3
•	 Alexandra Papalexopoulou MBA’09D, Deputy Chair 
of the Group Executive Committee, Titan Cement 
International
•	 Lucy Quist MBA’05J, Managing Director and Head of 
Change Leadership, Morgan Stanley
•	 Pascale Witz MBA’96J, Founder and President, PWH 
Advisors
•	 Rémy Best MBA’93D, Chairman, Fondation Mondiale; 
Independent Board Member, Pictet Group
•	 Frans Blom MBA’90D (ex-officio), President, INSEAD 
Alumni Association; Chairman of the Supervisory 
Board, Van Lanschot Kempen
•	 François Hériard-Dubreuil MBA’75J, Chairman, 
Fondation INSEAD Chairman, Rémy Cointreau 
Foundation
•	 Deepak Gupta, Founder and Chairman, Denita Group 
of Companies 4
•	 Karen Fawcett, Non-executive Director
Permanent Invitees of the Board of Directors
•	 Ilian Mihov, Dean of INSEAD; Professor of 
Economics; The Rausing Chaired Professor of 
Economic and Business Transformation
•	 François Hériard Dubreuil, President, Fondation 
INSEAD; Chairman, Orpar; Chairman, Rémy Cointreau
Faculty and Staff Representatives at the Board 
of Directors
•	 Enver Yücesan, Faculty Representative; Professor of 
Technology Management 
•	 Andrew Shipilov Faculty Representative; Professor of 
Strategy 5
•	 James Middleditch, Staff Representative; Director, 
Operations and Campus Services, International
•	 Laura Kapstein, Deputy Staff Representative; 
Associate Director, Talent Development, Human 
Resources
Board Committees
•	 Audit, Finance and Risk, chaired by Jolyon Barker
•	 Campaign Board, chaired by Rémy Best
•	 Endowment Management, chaired by Alexis Habib
•	 Facilities, chaired by Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz
•	 Governance, chaired by Andreas Jacobs
•	 Nominations and Compensation, chaired by 
Pascale Witz
•	 Dean Search, chaired by Stefan Thau
•	 Chairman Search 6, chaired by Pascale Witz
•	 Advisor Council, chaired by Mika Salmi
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee provides the school with 
organisational and strategic direction, as well as short- 
and long-term operational guidance. The Committee is 
chaired by the Dean, who appoints all other members, 
and includes diverse faculty and staff members from 
across locations.
Members of the Executive  Committee  
as of end of August 2023
•	 Ilian Mihov, Dean of INSEAD
•	 Javier Gimeno, Dean of Faculty
•	 Lily Fang, Dean of Research
•	 Urs Peyer, Dean of Degree Programmes
•	 Sameer Hasija, Dean of Executive Education
•	 Nida Januskis, Associate Dean for Advancement
•	 Attila Cselotei, Chief Operating Officer
•	 Guy De Herde, Chief People Officer
•	 Séverine Guilloux, Chief Marketing Officer
Updated information on our Board of Directors and 
Executive Committee members can be found on 
the INSEAD Leadership page.
Leadership
2 Mandate started in February 2022.
3 Mandate started in February 2023.
4 Mandate ended in January 2022.
5 Mandate started in February 2022.
6 Active from June 2022 to April 2023.

=== PAGE 8 ===
14
15
UN PRME PRINCIPLES 1, 2, 5, 6
Sustainability has a long history at INSEAD. For more than 60 years, our school has played an important role in 
developing responsible business leaders, reflecting on the link between business, environment and society.
Since its establishment in 1957, INSEAD has believed in the power of business to promote prosperity across 
nations. Such an approach evolved over our history, along with reflection, research and practice on the link 
between business, environment and society. Here are some landmarks of this journey: 
A History of Sustainability
1968
One of the first business schools to graduate women from the MBA programme.
1980s
First steps of research on environmental resource management, business ethics and 
humanitarian initiatives.
1989
The Centre for the Management of Environmental and Social Responsibility (CMER) 
was established, one of the first formal mechanisms at the school to examine social 
responsibility.
2002
The Humanitarian Research Group was established to identify best practices for disaster 
preparedness and response coordination.
2006
The INSEAD Social Entrepreneurship Executive Education Programme (ISEP) was founded 
in collaboration with the Schwab Foundation, Ashoka and others to bring advanced 
management skills to the leaders of social impact organizations.
2007
The INSEAD Social Innovation Centre (ISIC) was created to bring together experts and 
research streams as a resource for business leaders and students, mainstreaming these 
issues into learning activities and reflecting the changing business environment.
2008 to 
2017
Our Gender Initiative was established, along with other centres and initiatives tackling 
research and solutions for issues like wealth inequality, healthcare management, and 
social impact.
2018
The Hoffmann Global Institute for Business and Society was established to coordinate and 
reinforce all sustainability action across the school.
Our approach to 
Sustainability
INSEAD established the Hoffmann Global Institute 
for Business and Society following a landmark gift 
from André Hoffmann MBA’90D and his wife Rosalie. 
This transformational gift enabled INSEAD to pursue 
its mission with a strategy which durably embeds 
sustainability into academic work, curricula, operations 
and personnel practices, pushing the school to 
leadership in these areas. Our global reach, academic 
assets, integrated approach and engaged community 
enable us to forge leaders that stand ready to use 
business as a force for good.
Our Sustainability Strategy
GRI 2-12, 2-13, 2-29
SDG  16
The Hoffmann Institute is responsible for INSEAD 
sustainability reporting and has aligned the structure 
and strategy of this practice, allowing for all actions 
and initiatives in this Report to be categorized 
according to the following four pillars:
 
Knowledge
Research new theories, insights and business models 
to drive private sector prosperity and societal progress
 
Learning
Inspire and educate diverse and analytical leaders who 
create value for their organisations and society
 
Engagement
Engage alumni community, public/private sector, and 
other stakeholders, to create real-world impact
 
Walk the Talk
Lead by example, contributing to local and global 
progress and prosperity
5 Years of Sustainability in 
Action
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 6
SDG  17
In the context of global conversations and debates 
on climate change, social inequalities, international 
cooperation, and increasing pressure on businesses to 
re-examine their role in society and act responsibly, the 
Hoffmann Institute organized a Business and Society 
Summit in June 2023 to reflect on the challenges 
and milestones achieved in positioning INSEAD as a 
leader in future-focused and responsible management 
education.
With over 400 participants, the Summit was 
inaugurated by the Executive Director and Academic 
Director of the Institute, with participation by André and 
Rosalie Hoffmann, INSEAD faculty and guest speakers. 
The Summit kicked off with a keynote address by 
Johan Rockström, Director of PIK – Potsdam Institute 
for Climate Impact Research, titled “Understanding 
the science of planetary boundaries for a safe and 
just future”. His remarks highlighted the urgent need 
for transformation to address the transgression of 
the Earth’s system boundaries and the potentially 
irreversible consequences if timely action is not taken. 
The summit also featured:
•	 Three breakout sessions led by INSEAD Professors 
Jasjit Singh, Steve Chick and Claudia Zeisberger 
respectively on Addressing the Climate Crisis; 
Transforming Health Systems and a Virtual Reality 
Experience; Social Impact – Shared Ownership 
implemented by Private Equity
•	 A panel focused on sustainability reporting with the 
participation of Professor Peter Joos
•	 A conversation with Paul Polman; and a final panel 
on systems change and the role of stakeholders, with 
the participation of Visiting Professor Lite Nartey
More details on the Summit are available on our 
website. For more information on how the Hoffmann 
Institute has supported sustainability action across 
INSEAD since its inception, explore the Institute’s  First 
Five Years report.
Activities and research from the different centres 
and initiatives presented have helped INSEAD build 
a correct understanding and practice of social 
responsibility, ethics and sustainability, as assessed 
and validated by the Association to Advance 
Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) and the 
European Foundation for Management Development 
Quality Improvement System (EQUIS). 

=== PAGE 9 ===
16
17
Our Highlights
43 research projects funded with more than €960,000 from the Business & Society 
R&D Fund.
60 Faculty-authored articles and 26 cases published on Sustainability topics.
Showcased the sustainability work of 5 academic areas in the Lessons in 
Sustainability series.
Over 50 articles on Sustainability topics and 22 articles under the Crossroads: 
Business and Society series on INSEAD Knowledge.
Co-hosted the 2022 and 2023 Responsible Research in Business Management 
(RRBM) Summit.
10 inspiring stories of social entrepreneurship featured in seasons 2 and 3 of the 
podcast Mission to Change.
 1. Knowledge
GRI 3-3: RESEARCH 
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 4
UNAI PRINCIPLES 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10
SDG  9
As a leader in management education and research, 
the vibrant INSEAD research community produces 
knowledge with high academic and real-world impact. 
By integrating business and society into research, 
our school’s faculty informs the business world and 
addresses overarching topics of sustainable models, 
inclusion, well-being and fostering change within 
people, organisations, systems and the status-quo.
Our 159 faculty members are distributed across our 
three campuses and belong to one of nine academic 
areas 7. During academic years 2021-22 and 2022-23, 
the faculty published a total of 310 peer-reviewed 
journal articles and 125 case studies 8. The quality of 
their cutting-edge research has helped INSEAD line up 
in diverse rankings such as those by Financial Times 
and University of Texas at Dallas.
7 Accounting and Control, Decision Sciences, Economics and Political Science, Entrepreneurship and Family Business, Finance, Marketing, Organisational 
Behaviour, Strategy and Technology and Operations Management.
8 On academic year 2021-22: 160 journal articles and 66 case studies. On academic year 2022-23: 150 journal articles and 59 case studies.
Impact

=== PAGE 10 ===
18
19
Centres, Initiatives and 
Institutes working on 
Sustainability
Directed by Professor Zoe Kinias until academic year 
2021-22, and by Professor Kaisa Snellman from year 
2022-23 onwards, the Gender Initiative aims to create 
and disseminate knowledge that advances women 
leaders and optimises their contributions within 
and beyond their organisations. Built on the INSEAD 
core organisational value of diversity and decades 
of gender diversity efforts, the Initiative integrates 
research, business, and pedagogy to engage the full 
potential of both women and men.
The Healthcare Management Initiative directed by 
Professor Stephen E. Chick is committed to advancing 
scientific knowledge and innovative approaches to 
improve healthcare systems worldwide. It leverages 
expertise to understand the social, economic, and 
behavioural factors affecting health and the role 
of business in addressing innovation and access 
challenges in the sector.
Directed by Emeritus Professor of Technology and 
Operations Management Luk Van Wassenhove, 
the Humanitarian Research Group promotes the 
science of development and relief operations through 
impactful, practice-based research in line with the 
SDGs. Numerous high-quality cases, papers submitted 
to and published in top journals, are among the group’s 
main outputs over the reporting period.
The Africa Initiative is led by Professor Prashant 
Yadav and aims to enhance learning about Africa, 
its people, the environment, and business and 
innovation on the African continent. The Initiative 
looks for opportunities to contribute to the continent’s 
education, business and policy environment
Established to research and teach income and wealth 
inequality in a business school setting, the Stone 
Centre for the Study of Wealth Inequality is committed 
to generating new insights about income and wealth 
inequality problems. Under the academic direction 
of Professor Mark Stabile, the Centre focuses on 
mobilising the next generation of business leaders to 
solve these problems.
An open and international platform dedicated 
to bringing together scholars and practitioners 
to collaborate on research and education on 
negotiation and conflict management, this initiative 
was launched in academic year 2022-23 under the 
leadership of Professor Roderick Swaab. Its five 
main levers for impact are to equip individuals and 
organisations with evidence-based negotiation and 
conflict management insights; to reduce social and 
economic inequality through negotiation and conflict 
management empowerment; to foster interdisciplinary 
collaborations; to offer a global perspective on the 
topic’s dynamics; and to connect a motivated global 
community.
Founded in September 2022, the three main objectives 
of the Sustainable Business Initiative were spelled out 
by founding Academic Director Atalay Atasu and 
Collaborator Luk Van Wassenhove – strive to do 
applied research inspired by practice and partner with 
companies interested in building new and boundary 
stretching knowledge; bring this research into INSEAD 
degree programmes and executive education; and train 
and support early career researchers to be productive 
around the first two objectives.
 
The Emerging Markets Institute was dedicated to 
issues related to business management, social and 
economic development in emerging economies across 
the globe. Its research-based knowledge creation was 
focused on leveraging opportunities for sustainable 
growth, innovation and development offered by 
these growth economies. Having achieved all its 
direct deliverables, the institute’s ongoing work was 
moved into the Hoffmann Institute and other research 
centres like the Africa and China Initiatives from 
September 2022.
Research Outputs
GRI 3-3: TECHNOLOGY / VIRTUAL RESOURCES 
During academic years 2021-22 and 2022-23, 26 
cases and 60 articles addressing sustainability and 
related topics were published.
Papers and Articles
Themes discussed in papers and articles published 
during the reporting period range from circular 
economy, humanitarian operations, gender equality, 
and consumer behaviour to sustainable finance. 
These pieces were published in renowned journals 
such as Production and Operations Management, 
Management Sciences, Organization Sciences, 
Strategic Management Journal, The Lancet Global 
Health, Harvard Business Review, and others.
Select articles are listed below, with the complete 
database available on our website. Note that access to 
an article or paper may be restricted or require a paid 
subscription. INSEAD-affiliated authors are highlighted 
in bold.
Published in academic year 2021-22
•	Serasu Duran, Atalay Atasu and Luk N. Van 
Wassenhove – Cleaning after solar panels: applying 
a circular outlook to clean energy research
•	Vishal Agrawal, Atalay Atasu and Sezer Ülkü – 
Leasing, Modularity, and the Circular Economy
•	Jack Favilukis, Pierre Mabille and Stijn Van 
Nieuwerburgh – Affordable Housing and City Welfare
•	Jackson G. Lu, Roderick I. Swaab and Adam D. 
Galinsky – Global Leaders for Global Teams: Leaders 
with Multicultural Experiences Communicate and 
Lead More Effectively, Especially in Multinational 
Published in academic year 2022-23
•	Hami Amiraslani, Karl V. Lins, Henri Servaes and Ane 
Tamayo – Trust, Social Capital, and the Bond Market 
Benefits of ESG Performance
•	Philippe Aghion, Roland Bénabou, Ralf Martin and 
Alexandra Roulet – Environmental Preferences and 
Technological Choices: Is Market Competition Clean 
or Dirty?
•	Leena Kinger Hans; Balagopal Vissa – Who 
Gives Back? Evidence from India on Successful 
Entrepreneurial Exit and Involvement in Philanthropy
•	Wei Shi, Chongwu Xia and Philipp Meyer-Doyle – 
Institutional Investor Activism and Employee Safety: 
The Role of Activist and Board Political Ideology
Atalay Atasu
Philippe Aghion
Hami Amiraslani
Alexandra Roulet
Case Studies
Our faculty produces world-class cases that are shared 
in the school’s classrooms and online publications. 
INSEAD cases are consulted by business leaders and 
educators all over the world to inform decisions in 
diverse management situations and challenges.
This Sustainability Report highlights a selection of 
the 26 cases related to sustainability published in the 
reporting period, with the complete database available 
on the INSEAD Publishing website. 
Published in academic year 2021-22
•	Quy Huy and Lisa Simone Duke – Haidilao: Creating 
and Sustaining an Emotional Culture for High 
Performance
•	Claudia Zeisberger, Alexandra von Stauffenberg 
and Cindy Van Der Wal – Private Equity Real 
Estate Investors – Overcoming the Challenge of 
Sustainability & ESG: Pro-invest Group’s ESG Journey
•	Stanislav Shekshnia and Ludo Van der Heyden – 
Emmanuel Faber at Danone: Man on a Mission (A), 
(B) and (C)

=== PAGE 11 ===
20
21
Published in academic year 2022-23
•	Anton S. Ovchinnikov, Spyros Zoumpoulis, Christian 
Jaubert and Clement Moreau – Leveraging Analytics 
at Victory Farms (A): Background, (B): Customer 
Segmentation and (C): Buy Now, Pay Later Credit 
Offering
•	N. Craig Smith and Lisa Simone Duke – Fairphone 3: 
Commercializing Radical Sustainability
•	W. Chan Kim, Renée Mauborgne and Mi Ji – 
How Business and Society Can Thrive Together: 
Tongwei’s Innovation of a Brand-new Green Energy 
Market in China
Academic Areas working on 
Sustainability
All of the nine INSEAD academic areas integrate 
sustainability topics into research and teaching. These 
outputs are summarized in the ongoing Lessons in 
Sustainability series on the Hoffmann Institute stories 
page. Six blogs have already been published:
•	Economics and Political Science with Professor 
Pushan Dutt
•	Strategy with Professor Andrew Shipilov
•	Entrepreneurship and Family Enterprise with 
Professor Xiaowei Rose Luo
•	Technology and Operations Management with 
Professor Manuel Sosa
•	Decision Sciences with Professor Enrico Diecidue
•	Organisational Behaviour with Professor 
Stefan Thau
Chairs and Fellowships
Faculty members can be appointed to a chair or 
fellowship in recognition of their academic and 
institutional contributions. The generous donations 
of individuals and companies make it possible to 
continue advancing research in sustainability.
During the reporting period, INSEAD chairs and 
fellowships on business and society topics included:
Bianca and James Pitt Chair in Environmental 
Sustainability – Professor Atalay Atasu
This chair supports knowledge creation targeted at 
sustainable operations management, the circular 
economy, and extended producer responsibility.
Patrick and Valentine Firmenich Fellowship 
for Business and Society – Professor Dan Iancu
This fellowship examines how operational 
excellence and innovative business models can 
help organisations generate positive social and 
environmental impact while still being profitable.
Goltz Fellowship in Business and Society – 
Professor Maria Guadalupe
This fellowship recognises and supports exceptional 
young academics working at the intersection of 
business and society.
Barons Janssen Endowed Professorship – 
Professor Peter Joos
This professorship supports research on sustainable 
finance and accounting.
INSEAD also appointed Marcos Prado Troyjo and 
Beatrice Weder di Mauro as Hoffmann Institute 
distinguished fellows. These scholars are recognized 
for their expertise in driving forward innovative 
research in critical areas of global significance such as 
climate change and sustainable finance, globalisation 
and developing economies.
Mr. Prado Troyjo is a Brazilian political 
economist, diplomat, and writer. He is 
an expert in globalization and economic 
development. He has held several high-
level positions in government, business, 
and academia, and is an author of 
multiple books and articles on these 
topics.
Dr. Weder di Mauro is a President 
of the Centre for Economic Policy 
Research, and Professor of International 
Economics at Geneva Graduate Institute 
(IHEID). She has provided policy 
advice to governments, international 
organizations, and central banks in 
Europe and around the world.
Hoffmann-World Economic Forum 
Fellowships
These two fellowships, established in cooperation 
between INSEAD’s Hoffmann Institute and the World 
Economic Forum, finalised its activities in academic 
year 2022-23.
Fellow Mel Hua worked with Professor Spencer 
Harrison to investigate how adoption of “dirty 
innovations” can facilitate the transition to a more 
circular economy. In the reporting period, this research 
project focused on data collection useful to produce 
toolkits that help organisations in their journey to 
transformation into circularity.
Fellow Felipe Vizzoto worked with Professor Dan 
Iancu to explore how to best leverage data analytics 
and technology to accelerate incentives for net-zero 
emissions and nature-positive food systems. In the 
reporting period, this research work reached its final 
phases. With the support of cutting-edge methods, the 
researcher designed a good model to extract insights 
from data on nutritional patterns and preferences, with 
a particular focus on Brazil.
Funding
During the reporting period, the following funds helped 
our school deliver new knowledge on general and 
specific business and society topics:
•	Andrew Land Fund – Support for embedding the 
UN Sustainable Development Goals into business 
education.
•	Cyril de Bournet Fund for Gender Diversity in Faculty 
– Support for work by female faculty at INSEAD, 
including research and teaching.
•	Dirk Luyten Research Fund on Gender – Support for 
work by the INSEAD Gender Initiative.
•	Jacques Garaïalde Research Fund for Decreasing 
Wealth Inequality – Support for research work by the 
James M. and Cathleen D. Stone Centre for the Study 
of Wealth Inequality.
•	Mark Pathy MBA’98D Research Fund – Support 
for research at the INSEAD Sustainable Business 
Initiative.
•	Michael A. Butt Fund for Business and Society by 
AXIS Capital – Support for research streams that fall 
under the Hoffmann Institute.
•	Mirjam Staub-Bisang Research Fund in Sustainable 
Finance – Support for research in sustainable 
finance, in particular Environment, Social and 
Governance (ESG).
•	Robb Case Fund for Business and Society – Support 
for writing cases on business and society, with focus 
on diversity and inclusion, sustainable models and 
social impact.
Through the Business and Society R&D Fund, the 
Hoffmann Institute provided additional support to the 
development of research projects with support by 
the school’s Research and Development Committee. 
During the reporting period, this fund supported 43 
sustainability research projects by 32 faculty members 
for a total of over €960,000, with €202,000 dedicated 
to a pool of research assistants and €24,000 for 
databases.
External Recognition
INSEAD faculty are often recognised as thought 
leaders in business education research, reinforcing 
our tradition of academic excellence. In the reporting 
period, faculty members received the following 
awards.
Case Centre Awards 2022
•	Professor N. Craig Smith received the Ethics and 
Social Responsibility category award for the case 
‘‘Volkswagen’s Emissions Scandal: How Could It 
Happen?’’
•	Professor Joerg Niessing won the Marketing 
category award with his case ‘‘waterdrop®: Changing 
the Paradigms of the Beverage Industry with Limited 
Resources and Digital Marketing’’.
Case Centre Best of 2022
•	Four cases on Ethics and Social responsibility were 
featured in the list of “Most Popular Cases” in 2022:
•	‘‘Enel’s Innovability: Global Open Innovation and 
Sustainability’’ by Felipe Monteiro and Jose Miguel 
Garcia Benavente
•	‘‘Google and Project Maven (A): Big Tech, 
Government and the AI Arms Race’’ by Gianpiero 
Petriglieri and Jaimie Stettin
•	‘‘Procter & Gamble and Population Services 
International (PSI): Social Marketing for Safe 
Water’’ by Margaret Hanson and Karen Powell
•	‘‘Volkswagen’s Emissions Scandal: How Could It 
Happen?’’ by N. Craig Smith and Erin McCormick
Quy Huy
Claudia Zeisberger
Spyros Zoumpoulis
W. Chan Kim and 
 Renée Mauborgne

=== PAGE 12 ===
22
23
•	The case “Société Générale: The Rogue Trader” by 
Mark Hunter and N. Craig Smith was featured as a 
best-selling classic case.
2023 AMA-EBSCO-RRBM Award for 
Responsible Research in Marketing
•	Professors Pierre Chandon and Hilke Plassmann 
won this award for their article “Obesity and 
Responsiveness to Food Marketing Before and After 
Bariatric Surgery”, recognising the impact of this 
research and their numerous direct applications in 
society. 
•	Professor Chandon and PhD alumni Yann Cornil were 
finalists for their paper “More value from less food? 
Effects of epicurean labelling on moderate eating in 
the United States and in France”.
INSEAD Knowledge
GRI 3-3: TECHNOLOGY / VIRTUAL RESOURCES 
Sustainability and business and society topics are 
featured at INSEAD Knowledge, a platform that 
translates academic research into practical, reader-
friendly articles, videos and podcast episodes.
In the reporting period, the platform featured 22 
opinion articles of the Crossroads: Business and 
Society series with insights on climate change and 
carbon emissions, gender and health inequalities, 
biodiversity, among other topics. Additionally, over 50 
opinion articles discussed ‘Responsibility’ topics in the 
platform.
Selected articles of the INSEAD Knowledge platform 
under the ‘Responsibility’ topic are listed below..
•	 “Companies Must Put Equality at the Heart of the 
Race to Zero” by Katell Le Goulven and Mark Stabile.
•	 “Why Allyship Is Key to Gender Balance” by Ilian 
Mihov and Zoe Kinias.
•	 “Can Private Equity Make Money While Doing 
Good?” by Claudia Zeisberger.
•	 “‘Tech for Good’ Needs a ‘Good Tech’ Approach” by 
Theodoros Evgeniou and Ludo Van der Heyden.
•	 “Biodiversity: Why Should Business Care?“ by Elisa 
Dierickx MBA‘21J.
•	 “Are Our Supply Chains Ready for the Next Global 
Health Crisis?“ by Prashant Yadav.
•	 “The Pandemic Has Dealt a Blow to Gender 
Balance“ by Zoe Kinias.
•	 “GHG Emissions Reduction: Scientific Rigour and 
Stakeholder Engagement“ by Atalay Atasu and Attila 
Cselotei.
•	 “How Organisation Design Can Rescue the SDGs“ by 
Phanish Puranam.
•	 “Transformative Change Starts With Responsible 
Research“ by Ilian Mihov and Erika H. James 
(Dean, The Wharton School of the University of 
Pennsylvania).
•	 “We Need to Talk About the Carbon Budget“ by 
Beatrice Weder di Mauro (Visiting Professor and 
Distinguished Research Fellow, HGIBS).
•	 “When Shareholders Share, the Business Benefits“  
by Claudia Zeisberger.
Events
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 6
Responsible Research in Business 
Management (RRBM) Summits
The Responsible Research for Business and 
Management (RRBM) community aims to inspire, 
encourage and support credible and useful research 
in the business and management disciplines. During 
the reporting period, two RRBM Summits were co-
sponsored by INSEAD and The Wharton School of the 
University of Pennsylvania.
2022 Summit
The 2022 RRBM Summit was hosted at the Wharton 
School in Philadelphia on 6 and 7 June. The Summit 
convened academics and executives from business 
schools, associations and international organisations 
to discuss how principled research delivers value to 
business and society, under the theme Rewarding 
Responsible Research. A summary of Summit 
discussions can be found in this blog post.
2023 Summit
Hosted on the INSEAD Europe Campus from 15 to 17 
June, the 2023 RRBM Summit engaged members of 
the business and management research ecosystem 
interested in promoting an agenda of credible and 
socially-impactful responsible research.
The event featured presentations on experimental 
business models for sustainability research and 
inclusivity as a guiding principle for credible and useful 
science. The Summit also hosted panel discussions 
on sustainability reporting, journals impact metrics 
around the SDGs, and impactful research. Networking 
sessions and a professional development workshop 
for PhD students were also held.
For more details on Summit activities and insights, 
explore this story.
Mission to Change Podcast
Mission to Change is a podcast series hosted by 
Hoffmann Institute Executive Director Katell Le 
Goulven that showcases stories of inspiring figures 
transforming businesses and initiatives that drive 
positive change. In its second and third seasons, the 
podcast focused on environment, biodiversity and 
social entrepreneurship.
Season two featured a special introduction from 
Harrison Ford. Episodes released during the reporting 
period welcomed:
•	 Dr. Megan Morikawa, Global Director of 
Sustainability Office at Iberostar Group, on 
responsible tourism restoring the oceans’ 
biodiversity.
•	 Harvard Professor Rebecca Henderson, on 
business capacity to reset capitalism and how 
to do it, including case studies and a roadmap for 
business to create change.
•	 Simon Zadek, Chair of Finance for Biodiversity, 
on the need to make nature count in financing 
decisions.
•	 Lorna Rutto, Cartier Women’s Initiative Fellow 
and 2022 graduate of the INSEAD-Cartier Impact 
Entrepreneurship Programme, on her journey to 
launch EcoPost, a company that turns waste plastic 
into sustainable timber.
•	 Magali Anderson, Chief Sustainability and 
Innovation Officer at Holcim, on her quest to 
transform the built environment to zero-carbon and 
nature-positive through corporate activism.
•	 Bill Drayton, founder of Ashoka, on what it means to 
be a social entrepreneur.
•	 Filipe Santos, INSEAD Visiting Professor of Social 
Entrepreneurship and Dean of Católica Lisbon 
School of Business and Economics, and Alexandra 
Machado, CEO of Girl MOVE Academy, on the four 
stages in the lifecycle of a social enterprise.
•	 Mila Lukic, Co-Founder of Bridges Outcomes 
Partnerships and INSEAD alumna, on how 
outcomes-based contracts work in public sector.
•	 Felipe Monteiro, Professor at INSEAD, and Fabio 
Tentori, Head of Innovation and Sustainability at 
Enel X, on how corporations and impact enterprises 
partner for good.
•	 Cynthia Rayner, INSEAD alumna, and Jeroo 
Billimoria, serial social entrepreneur, on social 
enterprises changing and impacting at a systemic 
level.
 
Hilke Plassmann
Joerg Niessing
Pierre Chandon
N. Craig Smith
Participants at the 2023 Responsible Research in Business Management (RRBM) Summit

=== PAGE 13 ===
24
25
Degree Programmes
Our different programmes address sustainability 
topics and business and society outcomes in their 
curricula – in core courses and elective courses, 
learning sessions and other activities.
Master in Business Administration (MBA)
During academic year 2021-22, in light of the changing 
landscape in business and business education, we 
started a process to review our MBA curriculum and 
sustainability course offering. Under the leadership 
of Urs Peyer, Dean of Degree Programmes, and a 
four-member faculty committee with support by 
the Hoffmann Institute 10, an in-depth analysis of 
internal and external stakeholders was carried out 
and complemented with feedback from students 
and alumni.
Academic year 2022-23 saw the completion of this 
review process and collective effort, ratified by the vote 
of faculty members approving the change. The new 
MBA programme embeds clear learning objectives on 
sustainability into all 14 core courses and introduces 
a new mandatory capstone to challenge students to 
integrate sustainability learning across management 
areas. Students can further tailor their MBA 
programme to individual interests by choosing from a 
selection of 20 sustainability-focused elective courses.
Implementation of this curriculum transformation 
will start in January 2024. This Sustainability Report 
describes core and elective courses offered in the 
reporting period preceding this integration
Core Courses
Our MBA programme core courses such as Public 
Policy, Political Environment and Business Ethics 
introduce sustainability topics and the role of business 
in society. Other courses on Organisational Behaviour, 
Finance and Strategy also have sustainability 
components. 
Twelve out of fourteen MBA core courses discuss and/
or review sustainability topics:
1.	 Business and Society: Public Policy
2.	 Business and Society: Ethics
3.	 Business and Society: Political Environment
4.	 Organisational Behaviour I
5.	 Organisational Behaviour II
6.	 Managing Customer Value
7.	 Managerial Accounting
8.	 Process and Operations Management
9.	 Financial Accounting
10.	Prices and Markets
11.	Macroeconomics
12.	Introduction to Strategy
 2. Learning
GRI 3-3: INNOVATION 
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 3
UNAI PRINCIPLES 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9
SDGs  4   9   12  
By providing a transformational learning journey to one 
of the largest and most diverse student bodies in the 
world, INSEAD equips future leaders to act responsibly 
and drive sustainable, meaningful change in business. 
We integrate sustainability in every core component 
of our flagship programme, the Master in Business 
Administration, and in other degree programmes. 
This can motivate students to embrace the concepts, 
tools, and frameworks connected to sustainable 
development practices. We also engage participants in 
projects positively impacting communities around the 
world, extending a ripple effect of business as a force 
for good far beyond our classrooms..
Classes during academic years 2021-22 and 2022-23
During the reporting period, a total of 2,837 students were enrolled in our degree programmes, 37% of which were 
women. INSEAD degree programmes are diverse in terms of number of distinct nationalities in each cohort.
Degree Programme	
Men	
Women	
Total	
Nationalities 9 
Master in Management (MIM)	
210	
128	
338	
36
Master in Business Administration (MBA)	
1,125	
630	
1,755	
68
Global Executive MBA (GEMBA)	
290	
138	
428	
63
Tsinghua-INSEAD Executive MBA (TIEMBA)	
40	
31	
71	
15
Executive Master in Finance (EMFin)	
35	
13	
48	
14
Executive Master in Change (EMC)	
75	
102	
177	
18
Total	
1,775	
1,042	
2,817	
During the reporting period, 12 men and 19 women from 12 nationalities joined our PhD in Management programme.
Our Highlights
Finalised the MBA curriculum review process to embed sustainability learning in all core 
courses and offer a new sustainability capstone course from 2024 onwards.
Engaged over 3,700 participants at student-led events SDG Week, Health Week and 
Earth Week.
Celebrated ranking in the top 10 schools for the ESG component of the 2022 and 2023 
Global FT MBA rankings.
On Executive Education, launched the INSEAD Business Sustainability Programme and the 
INSEAD Hans H. Wahl Impact Entrepreneurship Programme.
Delivered customised programmes with sustainability-focused components for some of 
the world’s largest companies.
Created the “Business Action for a Nature-Positive World” community on the INSEAD 
Learning Hub platform
“The renewed curriculum aims to equip students with the 
knowledge and tools so that they can make the right choices and 
have their own positive impact during their careers. When they 
make decisions and create solutions for a business, they will be 
able to take into account social and environmental impacts.”
Professor Urs Peyer, Dean of Degree Programmes
9 Average number, based on the distinct number of nationalities per programme’s cohort
10 Professors Antonio Fatas, Atalay Atasu, Peter Joos, and Jasjit Singh were part of this committee. Kim Wilkinson, Associate Director of the Hoffmann 
Institute, supported their work

=== PAGE 14 ===
26
27
been ranked in overall positions #3 and #2 respectively. 
When analysing by the ranking’s sustainability criterion, 
we are placed among the top ten positions in both 
years. In 2023 edition, such criterion considers the 
proportion of teaching hours from core courses 
including ethics, social, environmental issues and 
climate solutions that can enable organisations to 
reach net zero. 2022 edition only considered teaching 
hours for environmental, social and environmental 
issues.
The specialised publication Poets & Quants has 
ranked INSEAD’s MBA at the top of its 2023-2024 Top 
50 International MBA Programmes, and named it 2023 
MBA Program of the Year, in virtue of “its peerless 
embrace of the social and environmental principles of 
sustainability”.
This programme has also been recognised by the 
Corporate Knights magazine in its Better World MBA 
ranking, and by Bloomberg Businessweek’s Best 
European Business Schools 2023 ranking.
Extra-curricular Activities
INSEAD Summer Start-up Tour
The Summer Start-up Tour (SSUP) is an INSEAD MBA 
student-led summer (ad)venture that explores top 
entrepreneurial hot-spots around Europe, Asia and 
elsewhere, interviewing founders, angels and VCs to 
liven-up the student-founder-investor network and gain 
local, on-the-ground insights. 
The SSUP was founded by MBA alumni Akshay Goyle 
MBA’17D and Sebastien Barthelemy MBA’17D, and is 
supported by digital@INSEAD, the Rudolf and Valeria 
Maag INSEAD Centre for Entrepreneurship (ICE), the 
INSEAD Career Development Centre (CDC) and the 
Hoffmann Institute.
In academic year 2021-22, the teams Eternal 
Students and No Students Left Behind embarked 
on a journey to explore opportunities in EdTech – 
focusing on accessible coaching, upskilling and 
training in languages and coding, and education of 
vulnerable and migrant communities in Europe. In 
academic year 2022-23, the teams Génies d’Éclair, 
KenyaCap and EMS explored entrepreneurships in 
food and agriculture, climate, health and tech across 
the different geographies of Europe, Middle East and 
Africa. All teams shared their learnings on social 
media.
Summer Internships and Internship Impact Stipend
SDG  17
To support MBA students pursuing a summer 
internship in the public, not‐for‐profit sectors, for-profit 
impact ventures, and impact investment firms, the 
Hoffmann Institute created in academic year 2021-
22 the Internship Impact Stipend. This programme 
provides financial aid for those willing to have a 
practical experience with a clearly defined social or 
environmental purpose. It also aims to guarantee that 
students undertaking unpaid internships in eligible 
organisations receive a baseline compensation.
In its first year, 12 students were beneficiaries of this 
initiative and worked in social and environmental 
impact investing, venture capital, education and food 
sector organizations. In its second year, 25 students 
received a stipend. Companies welcoming our 
students included the Capitals Coalition, Civitem, GIST 
Impact, Group AID, World Rugby, Jumanji Studio, the 
Climate Tech Bootcamp and the SAJIDA Foundation.
Students shared their experiences in the My Summer 
Internship Journey story series on the INSEAD In the 
Know website
Core courses also teach values that propagate 
sustainability in the organisations that our students 
join after graduating from INSEAD. For example, 
courses on Organisational Behaviour present 
important aspects related to the social dimensions of 
sustainability, looking at the capacity of individuals to 
lead, work in teams, and better understand themselves 
and others. Courses adopt an evidence-based 
management approach, improving leadership and 
teamwork with scientific research from organisational 
psychology. These skills and strategies are important 
to meet the needs of communities and companies.
Master Strategist Day
SDG  17
Part of the Introduction to Strategy core course, the 
Master Strategist Day (MSD) is an intense learning 
exercise and student competition. It offers teams 
of MBA participants the opportunity to address a 
partner organization’s strategic challenges, delivering 
recommendations with the support of senior strategy 
professionals as mentors. Teams that make it into the 
finals pitch their proposals to a multidisciplinary panel 
of judges.
During the reporting period, the MSD featured the 
following social impact cases:
•	 Maio Biodiversity Foundation – A non-profit 
organisation (NGO) based in Cabo Verde and 
dedicated to biodiversity conservation and 
environmental protection since 2011.
•	 Almouneer Diabetic Eye Care – A Cairo-based chain 
of specialised eye clinics founded in 2014, that uses 
a new approach to preventing and treating blindness 
caused by untreated diabetes. 
•	 Nabta Health – A femtech start-up launched in 
2017 with a hybrid healthcare model to offer care to 
women in the Middle East, with the aim of scaling to 
low-income countries.
•	 Château de Fontainebleau – A historical landmark 
and World Heritage site local to the Europe Campus, 
this castle includes buildings and gardens with 
remarkable cultural heritage. 
The Hugo van Berckel Award recognises the 
competition’s winning team.
Elective Courses
Students can tailor their MBA journey to suit individual 
needs, choosing from a wide selection of more than 
75 elective courses on average per academic year 
across nine different academic areas. This portfolio 
of electives, in addition to the extra-curricular learning 
activities on offer, helps our MBA students prepare to 
face real business challenges related to sustainability.
The following is a detailed list of elective courses 
covering sustainability topics offered during the 
reporting period.
1.	 Body Business: Food and Well-Being
2.	 Business Sustainability
3.	 Creating Value in Health
4.	 Economics and Management in Developing 
Countries
5.	 Energy Transition Finance
6.	 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
7.	 Ethical Decision Making in Business
8.	 Ethical Dilemma
9.	 Health Care Markets and Policy
10.	Impact Investing (merged with Strategy and 
Impact)
11.	Income and Wealth Inequality and Future of 
Business
12.	Integrating Performance and Progress
13.	Measuring Sustainability
14.	Neuroscience for Marketing
15.	Radical Social Responsibility
16.	SDG Bootcamp
17.	Social Entrepreneurship
18.	Strategies for the Bottom of the Pyramid
19.	Sustainable Finance
External Recognition
As our flagship programme, the MBA is recognised 
worldwide among the top of its kind.
In the 2022 and 2023 editions of the Global MBA 
Rankings by the Financial Times, INSEAD’s MBA has 
Students at the February 2023 edition of the Master Strategist Day
Students taking part in the ‘SSUP Tour

=== PAGE 15 ===
28
29
•	 Healthcare Operations
•	 Humanitarian Operations and Supply Chain 
Management
•	 Non-Market Strategy
•	 Organisational Resilience
•	 Public Health
•	 Recycling and Renewable Energy Operations
•	 Sharing Economy
•	 Stakeholder Governance
•	 Sustainable Business Models and Ecosystems
•	 Sustainable Operations 
Students in the PhD programme go through five years 
of intensive training taking courses and conducting 
research culminating in a dissertation. During the 
reporting period, three sustainability-related research 
dissertations were completed. Program graduates 
Dmitrii Sumkin, Sundara Natarajan Panchanatham 
and Ece Guliz Gulserliler addressed topics on socially 
responsible service operations management, capacity 
management of public healthcare institutions, and 
business models for resource efficiency, respectively.
To find out more about the research and interest areas 
of our current PhD candidates, we invite you to explore 
their profiles here.
 
Scholarships
GRI 3-3: ACCESS TO EDUCATION AND AFFORDABILITY 
UNAI PRINCIPLES 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10
Our school strives to attract the best and brightest 
in our degree programmes and remains conscious 
of the diverse backgrounds and financial situations 
faced by candidates. Our scholarships include specific 
aid in recognition of those with a strong passion 
for business as a force for good. Scholarships are 
established thanks to the gifts of alumni, students, 
corporations and foundations who believe in our 
mission and founding values and support business as 
a force for good.
Multiple scholarships and assistance programmes are 
available and take into consideration criteria such as 
leadership skills, demonstrated expertise on climate 
change or social entrepreneurship, as well as various 
other diversity, inclusion and gender equality criteria. 
Thanks to these scholarships, our programmes can 
incorporate individuals with diverse perspectives into 
each class, address under-representation and financial 
challenges, and maintain the range of nationalities, 
professional experiences and socioeconomic 
backgrounds that make our programmes valuable.
During the reporting period, budget allocation 
towards our scholarship programme consistently 
increased, which allowed average individual amounts 
allocated per student to also increase. Furthermore, 
we witnessed an increase in the representation of 
women and scholars from emerging markets amongst 
recipients of these scholarships. 
Some of the programmes and scholarships available 
to our MBA students are:
•	 Loan Assistance Programme – Benefiting students 
who strive for leading careers in the impact space, 
public or non-profit organisations, for-profit social 
ventures and social investment firms with social or 
environmental purposes.
Global Executive MBA (GEMBA)
The modular GEMBA programme takes place on 
our three campuses and offers 12 core courses, 
one of which is a course on business and society. 
Participants can choose between a wide catalogue of 
electives to dig deeper into specific subjects. During 
the reporting period, three elective courses included 
a sustainability component: Strategy & Investing 
for Impact, Business Sustainability Thinking, and 
Sustainable Finance.
During the programme, participants have Key 
Management Challenges (KMCs) – broad, cross- 
disciplinary, cross-departmental courses that reflect 
realities of business, offered on all three campuses 
and off-campus locations. During the reporting period, 
the KMCs “Integrating Performance & Progress” and 
“Building Responsible Leadership at the Top” covered 
sustainability-related topics.
Master in Management (MIM)
Our MIM programme features an innovative learning 
approach with an applied problem-solving orientation, 
useful for the empowerment of future leaders working 
on the transformation of business and society. In the 
five MIM eight-week periods, participants are asked 
to take 12 core courses, six electives and multiple 
workshops and practical sessions.
‘‘Business and Society’’ is part of the curriculum’s block 
of core courses, and “Sustainability and Business 
Model Innovation” is a practical mandatory session. 
During the reporting period, the offer of elective 
courses linked to sustainability included Strategy and 
Investing in Impact, Sustainable Finance, Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion, and Business Sustainability 
Thinking.
Executive Master in Finance (EMFin)
Our EMFin programme accelerates the careers of 
experienced finance professionals. The programme’s 
coursework is divided into six two-week modules, with 
courses covering a range of topics and frameworks 
applicable to complex financial transactions.
Following the evolution of priorities and needs of the 
finance industry, this programme includes a course on 
Sustainable Finance. 11 Moreover, the EMFin capstone 
courses discuss management issues in finance, 
and bridges the gap between academic studies and 
current business practices. The capstone course Fair 
Process Leadership and Governance reviews topics 
on sustainability.
Executive Master in Change (EMC)
Our EMC programme motivates participants to 
investigate the basic drivers of human behaviour and 
the hidden dynamics of organisations. The programme 
integrates business education with a range of 
psychological disciplines, fostering the creation of 
healthier workplaces, effective leadership, and high-
performing teams and organisations.
The EMC is intrinsically linked to sustainability, with 
great potential to address issues at the intersection 
of business and society. Modules like “Human 
Behaviour Dynamics from the Organisational and 
Macro Perspective” and “Transforming Self and 
Society” require reflection on the leaders’ role towards 
sustainability and transformation of organisations.
PhD in Management
The INSEAD PhD in Management programme 
aims to provide passionate students with the 
training to become the influential academics 
of tomorrow. Candidates can specialise in one 
of the following areas: Accounting, Decision 
Sciences, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Marketing, 
Organisational Behaviour, Strategy or Technology and 
Operations Management.
The PhD programme supports the integration of 
sustainability topics into new business education 
standards through student research and collaboration 
with faculty. The following is a list of such study 
subjects:
•	 Circular Economy
•	 Corporate Social Impact
•	 Corporate Social Responsibility
•	 Gender Impact on Investment Decisions
An increasing scholarship budget…
…benefiting students with higher average amounts each year
2021
€5.7
mill.
2022
€6.1
mill.
2023
€6.4
mill.
287
students 
beneﬁted
306
students 
beneﬁted
304
students 
beneﬁted
€21.1k
€20k
€19.7k
2021
2022
2023
2023 Graduates of our PhD Programme
11 Part of Module 3 in academic year 2021-22 and an elective from academic year 2022-23

=== PAGE 16 ===
30
31
Health Week
With the goal to motivate the INSEAD community to 
make healthy decisions every day, our MIM students, in 
collaboration with the Hoffmann Institute and Campus 
Services, organised the first-ever INSEAD Health Week 
from 25 to 27 January 2022. This first edition included 
six online sessions and several in-person workshops 
on our Europe and Asia campuses, on topics such as 
stress and sustainable performance, physical diet, 
health and regeneration, and mental health.
In its second edition, held from 31 January to 2 
February 2023, Health Week gathered speakers and 
specialists in sessions on stress management, the 
importance of rest and recovery, and the balance 
between mental, emotional and physical health. These 
events were coupled with physical health checks, 
massages, mindfulness and yoga sessions. On Europe 
and Asia campuses, a special food and beverages 
menu was offered.
Earth Week
Organised as a collaboration between the Hoffmann 
Institute, Operations and Campus Services, Human 
Resources, the Career Development Center, and 
involvement by student clubs, the INSEAD Earth 
Week included activities and conversations to share 
knowledge and action across our community on topics 
related to our planet. The first cross-campus edition 
was held from 21 to 25 March 2022, and focused on 
nature, reflecting on sustainable eating, biodiversity 
loss, threatened ecosystems and more.
In its second edition, held from 17 to 21 April 2023, 
Earth Week participants discussed the intersection of 
climate change and financial markets, rethinking the 
economic and institutional model to create a more just 
and sustainable future, and INSEAD’s actions to reduce 
emissions and increase efficiency. Students and recent 
graduates also engaged in the Alumni Impact Career 
Panel, featuring four alumni working in sustainability-
related organizations. Climate Fresk Workshops were 
also offered on Europe and Asia campuses as well 
as a webinar involving faculty and sustainability and 
climate centres as part of the Business Schools for 
Climate Leadership coalition.
INSEAD Venture Competition and Social 
Impact Prize
Held by the Rudolf and Valeria Maag Centre for 
Entrepreneurship, the INSEAD Venture Competition 
(IVC) is the flagship entrepreneurship experience for 
participants in our degree programmes. Running 
twice a year, the competition represents a natural 
and exciting step in the development of student 
entrepreneurial ventures, allowing them to rigorously 
develop and pitch their start-up concepts and business 
model.
Alongside the three main prizes, the contest 
features a Social Impact Prize to recognize ventures 
incorporating one or more SDGs into their business 
model. The Prize is financially sponsored by the 
Hoffmann Institute. During the reporting period, the 
Social Impact Prize winners were:
•	 43rd edition – Team Switch-E, an algorithm-based 
solution to save energy and money while collecting 
and commercialising unused power from residential 
users. Carl Lackmann, David Young, Marie-Clara 
Schwab, Niklas Rudolf and Sibylle Soers – Class of 
MIM’22.
•	 44th edition – Team SPOT, an Africa-targeted start-
up to help individuals without a credit record rent a 
home and pay for it later while managing financial 
risks. Kwame Owusu-Ansa, Timothy Ayo-Ajayi, and 
Oghenevwede Odia.
•	 45th edition – Team Baobab, a platform to provide 
Kenyans with affordable access to a diverse range 
of investment opportunities built on a strong 
community focused on sharing and learning. Paul 
Mburu, Fabio Kenji Nishikawa & Ekpedeme Inyang – 
MBA’22D Class.
•	 46th edition – Team Capbrane, a start-up that aims 
to decarbonize the maritime industry by providing a 
post-combustion technology to separate CO2 from 
exhaust gas using a semi-permeable membrane. Iris 
Zhao - MBA’23J Class, Feb Hillman & Marion Becker.
Executive Education
Through open and tailored programmes, INSEAD 
delivers innovative and influential learning experiences 
for business executives around the world.
Each academic year, our Executive Education 
programmes reach more than 10,000 participants 
representing over 180 nationalities, with more than 
3,800 partner organisations. Our offering includes 
Open and Customised Programmes, with content 
featuring sustainability topics embedded in core 
•	 Andy Burgess Endowed Scholarship for Social 
Entrepreneurship – Created in 2005 with support 
of entrepreneur Andy Burgess MBA’91D, CEO 
of Somerset Entertainment, this endowed 
fund provides one scholarship per year for a 
deserving MBA student in the January class 
who demonstrates a commitment to social 
entrepreneurship through their pre-INSEAD 
experience.
•	 Ryoichi Sasakawa Young Leaders Fellowship 
Fund (Sylff) – Established in 1987 by the Nippon 
Foundation, the Sylff programme commits to 
education by awarding fellowships to promising 
graduate students. One MBA student receives the 
Sylff award each class.
•	 INSEAD Orange Endowed Scholarship for 
Emerging Markets – Benefiting emerging market 
participants with an experience or interest in 
telecommunications.
•	 INSEAD Syngenta Endowed Scholarship for 
Emerging Country Leadership – Benefiting 
outstanding participants with experience in industry 
and a commitment to contribute to their emerging 
economy or region.
•	 INSEAD Climate Change Scholarship – Created 
in 2022 thanks to the support of Sylvain Guyoton, 
MBA’02D, and Angie Ho Guyoton, benefiting 
participants with experience and a commitment to 
addressing climate change and its consequences 
through the development of business solutions.
Various alumni funded scholarships supporting 
Diversity and Excellence and Financial Need are 
available. Among these scholarships are the Class 
of MBA’65 Scholarship for Diversity, MBA’87J Special 
Profile Endowed Scholarship, MBA’89D Endowed 
Scholarship, MBA’91 June Endowed Scholarship, 
MBA’03D Endowed Diversity Scholarship, Alex and 
Nicolette Manson Endowed Diversity Scholarship, 
INSEAD Alumni Fund (IAF) Diversity Scholarships, 
Blom Family Endowed Scholarship, Daniel and Yvonne 
Lalonde Scholarship, Hachemi Family Scholarship, 
Qinqin and Xin Zhang Scholarship, Deepak and Sunita 
Gupta Endowed Scholarship, among others.
MBA participants also provide financial support 
through the Robin Hood Scholarship fundraising 
events, on and off-campus activities that raise funds 
for one or two need-based scholarships each year.
Careers with Impact
GRI 3-3: CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYMENT,  
GRI 203-2 
UNAI PRINCIPLES 2, 4, 7, 9, 10
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 5
Following the significant developments in sustainable 
finance, social impact and sustainability, the 
INSEAD Career Development Centre (CDC) has 
observed a growing interest in the broader social 
impact ecosystem to connect students with impact 
organizations to secure internship and employment 
opportunities in this space.
During the reporting period, graduates secured 
positions with impact organisations such as 
ASHOKA, the Asian Development Bank, the Japanese 
Development Bank, the Brazilian Development Bank, 
the Centre for Sustainable Development, the Clinton 
Health Access Initiative, the European Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, and the Yunus 
Social Business Fund.
Student-led Events
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 6
SDG Week
The cross-campus SDG Week is an annual event that 
aims to raise awareness about how businesses can 
drive progress towards achieving the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals. SDG week is co-
organized by the Hoffmann Institute, students and 
student clubs from our MBA and MIM programmes, 
with sponsorship from Accenture Strategy.
Its third edition, held from 2 to 4 November 2021, 
explored the sustainability journey, redefining 
capitalism and catalysing systemic change, along with 
sessions on gender equality, impact investment and 
more, with all sessions available in a hybrid format. 
An on-campus exhibition on the Sahara and human 
adaptability to climate change was presented in a 
format that encouraged the Fontainebleau community 
to participate.
The SDG Week fourth edition, held from 2 to 4 
November 2022, featured more than 10 interactive 
sessions and over 40 speakers discussing a range 
of sustainability topics and global challenges. Some 
of the topics included the impact of climate change 
in Africa, new business models for a sustainable 
economy, investing in inclusion, and the impact of 
EdTech in underserved communities.
Students supporting the Robin Hood Scholarship
MBA students, alumni and staff participating in a Climate Fresk 
workshop at the Earth Week 2023

=== PAGE 17 ===
32
33
INSEAD-Cartier Female Impact Entrepreneurship 
Programme
SDGs  5   9   10  17  
This programme is offered as part of an alliance with 
the Cartier Women’s Initiative, featuring a learning 
journey tailored for female social entrepreneurs from 
around the world. The sessions focus on the insights 
and tools needed to maximize impact, as well as 
build leadership capacities which contribute to the 
UN SDGs.
In academic year 2021-22, 40 female entrepreneurs 
gathered on the INSEAD Middle East Campus for this 
programme. In academic year 2022-23, 30 female 
entrepreneurs attended the programme on our 
Europe Campus. 
INSEAD Learning Hub
GRI 3-3: TECHNOLOGY / VIRTUAL RESOURCES
The INSEAD Hoffmann Institute collaborated with 
Capitals Coalition, the World Economic Forum, 
Systemiq and rePLANET, to produce content for the 
new INSEAD Learning Hub platform. This dedicated 
learning track is labelled “Business Action for a 
Nature-Positive World”, and features relevant insights, 
research, and thought leadership on specific topics 
such as regenerative business, nature and climate 
change, nature-based solutions, nature and livelihoods, 
nature finance, and nature-positive governance.
Learning resources are available for free on the 
INSEAD Learning Hub application for mobile devices.
learning modules such as General Management, 
Corporate Governance, Leadership, Digital 
Transformation and Innovation, Strategy, Finance, 
Marketing and Sales, and Social Entrepreneurship.
Open Programmes
INSEAD Business Sustainability Programme
Designed for board members, senior executives 
and decision-makers, this programme empowers 
participants with the understanding, knowledge and 
tools to build an effective strategy and business case 
for sustainability.
Launched in academic year 2022-23, this five-day 
on-campus intensive programme includes content on 
critical challenges in creating sustainable business 
models, emerging frameworks, best practices, 
financial and accounting dimensions. The programme 
features experienced practitioners and thought leaders 
sharing their insights on sustainability as a foundation 
for strategic competitive advantage.
Directed by Professor Karel Cool, Professor of 
Strategic Management and BP Chaired Professor 
of European Competitiveness, and Professor Atalay 
Atasu, Professor of Technology and Operations 
Management and The Bianca and James Pitt Chair in 
Environmental Sustainability, the programme provides 
a global view on sustainable business, sessions on 
shareholder perspectives, market creation, circular 
economy and business models, sustainability 
measurement and reporting, and the financial markets 
perspective, among others.
Sustainability Leadership Programme for C-Suite
A 12-month long learning journey offered online, this 
programme contains core modules covering topics 
on business case, strategy execution, finance and 
accounting for a purpose-driven leadership in an 
organisation. It is co-directed by Professor Atalay 
Atasu and Senior Affiliate Professor of Finance Lucie 
Tepla. Its first edition, scheduled for February 2024, 
will also include a module on diversity, equity and 
inclusion, and the role of business in societal progress.
INSEAD Hans H. Wahl Impact Entrepreneurship 
Programme (formerly ISEP)
Developed and launched in cooperation by INSEAD 
Executive Education and the Hoffmann Institute, 
this partner programme is geared towards helping 
impact venture leaders develop the leadership and 
management skills to support a growing social 
enterprise. It is directed by the Hoffmann Institute 
Executive Director Katell Le Goulven with content 
developed by faculty.
The programme’s first edition was delivered in May 
2023 in partnership with the Cartier Women’s Initiative, 
the European Investment Bank, the Tommy Hilfiger 
Fashion Frontier Challenge, and Innovate 4 Nature. 
Participants also received coaching support from 
NEO Leaders.
This programme is named after Hans H. Wahl 
(1950 - 2022). It continues the work he started and 
championed for many years at INSEAD. In addition to 
his remarkable career of more than 
35 years in education, management, 
economic and political development, 
Hans co-led the INSEAD Social 
Entrepreneurship Programme 
(ISEP), which ran for 15 years 
with 28 sessions on Europe and 
Asia campuses. 
Customised Programmes
INSEAD delivers Customised Programmes for some 
of the world’s largest companies, with tailored content 
and objectives designed to contribute to their teams’ 
success. Built on cutting-edge, rigorous, evidence-
based research by our faculty, programmes translate 
knowledge into executive leadership development, 
perspectives, frameworks and tools for leaders.
The following is a list of components in customised 
programmes that have a focus on sustainability:
•	 Circularity through Design
•	 Decarbonization
•	 Digitalization and Sustainability
•	 Energy Transition and Climate Action
•	 Financial and Social Inclusion
•	 Natural Capital and Biodiversity
•	 Performance and Progress
•	 Sustainability and Governance
•	 Sustainability as part of a Growth Strategy
•	 Sustainability Reporting and Measurement
•	 Sustainability Virtual Reality Cases
•	 Sustainable Leadership
Thanks to the work of our faculty in curating thinking 
about sustainability, and their engagement with 
our alumni and corporate partners, INSEAD is well 
positioned to offer insights with practical applications 
to leaders across all industry sectors. 
2022 class of the INSEAD-Cartier Female  
Impact Entrepreneurship Programme
Professor Subramanian Rangan and Katell Le Goulven engaging 
with the Cartier Women’s Initiative community

=== PAGE 18 ===
34
35
Students
GRI 3-3: STUDENT SUPPORT AND LIFE 
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 4
Student clubs provide numerous engagement and 
networking opportunities on social and environmental 
topics. These extra-curricular activities are free and 
open to all students of our MBA and MIM programmes, 
as well as to alumni, staff and external participants. 
INDEVOR
Founded in 1993, INDEVOR is an impact organisation 
for students and alumni that serves as one of 
the main student forums examining the role of 
business in society. The club’s main areas of interest 
are Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
investing, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), 
impact investing, venture philanthropy, social 
entrepreneurship, international development, non-profit 
and non-governmental organisations (NGOs).
Environment and Business Club
Founded in 2013, the Environment and Business Club 
aims to raise future business leaders’ awareness of 
today’s environmental challenges, inspires leaders to 
develop sustainable solutions on a corporate level and 
promotes related career opportunities.
Women in Business Club
Created in 2005, the Women in Business Club 
promotes awareness of gender diversity issues in 
the business world, across the INSEAD community 
and beyond. Since its launch, the club has been key in 
raising awareness around the necessity to promote 
gender diversity in business. The club also aims to 
leverage the alumni network and INSEAD corporate 
relationships for career and mentorship opportunities.
OUTSEAD
Created with the purpose to foster an inclusive 
atmosphere for everyone on the school, and provide 
a social network for community members and 
allies alike, the OUTSEAD student club represents 
the LGBTQ+ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans, Queer/
Questioning, and others) community at INSEAD. 
The club hosts events to promote active allyship within 
the INSEAD community. 
Additional student clubs that allow students to engage 
on sustainability topics are the Retail, Consumer and 
Luxury Goods (RCLG) Club, the Student Impact Fund 
Club, the Energy Club, the Industry Club, the Africa 
Club, and the Emerging Markets Club.
Alumni
GRI 3-3: BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, ENTREPRENEURSHIP
UNAI PRINCIPLES 3, 4, 9, 10
With over 67,000 alumni across 179 countries, 
INSEAD engages its community to generate real world 
impact. This holds powerful potential to proliferate 
sustainability in principle and practice, as many 
INSEAD alumni steer global growth in prominent 
leadership roles in business and government. Alumni 
are organized in 49 National Alumni Associations, 
seven National Alumni Clubs, and eight global industry 
or interest clubs.
INSEADers making a difference in the world
Throughout the reporting period, we celebrated 
members of our alumni community who led by 
example and showed what it means to be a force 
for good in the world. Our selection of alumni 
changemakers and their impactful stories are available 
on the INSEADer of the Month webpage. 
Alumni Recognition Awards
Each year, INSEAD Alumni Recognition Awards 
recognise outstanding career achievements, societal 
impact and exceptional volunteerism of individuals 
among our global alumni community in six distinct 
categories. These leaders exemplify the school’s 
values and inspire the whole INSEAD community.
During the reporting period, the Force for Good Award 
was handed out twice, recognizing INSEAD graduates 
that have had an exceptional positive impact on the 
world. In 2022, this award recognised Guillaume 
Grosso MBA’03D. In 2023, the award recognised the 
co-founders of the ChangeNOW Summit, Santiago 
Lefebvre MBA’15J and Kevin Tayebaly MBA’15J.
 3. Engagement
SDG 
 17  
UNAI PRINCIPLES 1, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 6
By engaging with our broad community, INSEAD 
proliferates and disseminates knowledge on 
sustainability to promote real-world change in principle 
and practice. We connect with student clubs, alumni 
groups, non-profit organizations, United Nations 
initiatives and local communities to increase the reach 
and positive impact of our activities on sustainability
Our Highlights
Continued to engage with United Nations initiatives such as the UN Academic Impact (UNAI), the 
Principles for Responsible Management Education (UN PRME), and the UN Women #HeForShe 
Alliance. 
Engaged with French mainstream media at the Les Echos Club Engagement Responsable.
Engaged with business leaders in Europe at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting, and in 
Asia with the Stewardship Asia Centre.
Launch the Business Schools for Climate Leadership initiative with seven other leading business 
schools in Europe and held its first annual conference with the participation of member Deans, 
researchers and alumni. 
Helped empower female social entrepreneurs through academic partnerships with the Cartier 
Women’s Initiative and the ChangeNOW Summit. 
Engaged our local community on our Europe Campus with Les Conférences de L’INSEAD 
conference series. 
Recognized and celebrated alumni action as a force for good with the INSEADer of the Month and 
the Alumni Recognition Awards.
Promoted sustainability-related topics at alumni events and via webinars with practitioners from 
various industries and sectors. 
Helped connect our students in clubs to act collectively and raise awareness on sustainability and 
social impact topics.
“At INSEAD, I decided to work for 
the common good, to consider all 
this wonderful education as a new 
responsibility, and to use everything I 
learned to make the world a better place”
Santiago Lefebvre MBA’15J, Founder 
and CEO of ChangeNOW
“ChangeNOW is about shaping a new 
narrative about the role businesses and 
institutions play in building a sustainable 
world. INSEAD is a major contributor 
to this new narrative in its capacity to 
educate current and future generations 
of business leaders”
Kevin Tayebaly MBA’15J, 
Co-Founder of ChangeNOW

=== PAGE 19 ===
36
37
50 organisations to make the Race to Zero pledge and 
commit to net-zero CO2 emissions by 2050.
Les Conférences de l’INSEAD
For more than 30 years, Les Conférences de 
l’INSEAD hosts discussions and debates on issues 
of contemporary relevance with significant impact on 
society and people. Thanks to its creator, Professor 
Henri-Claude de Bettignies, the local, French-speaking 
community of our Europe Campus can join INSEAD 
thought leaders and discuss complex subjects of 
social interest.
Seasons 2021-22 and 2022-23 attracted more than 
two thousand participants and covered subjects 
ranging from world cultures, digitalization, societal 
transformations, and wellbeing at work to international 
relations in a context of conflict and economic growth. 
All sessions are available to watch online.
Fostering and Scaling Partnerships
GRI 3-3: PARTNERSHIPS FOR IMPACT IN COMMUNITIES
GRI 2-28
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 5
SDG 
 17  
By partnering with organisations to promote 
responsible leadership and positive social, economic 
and environmental impact, INSEAD increases its reach 
and impact beyond the academic sphere. During the 
reporting period, the school strengthened alliances 
with the following initiatives, always considering 
SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals and the need for 
collective advancement on sustainable development.
United Nations Principles for Responsible 
Management Education
Since 2008, INSEAD has been a PRME member. This 
initiative aims to raise the profile of sustainability in 
business schools around the world today and equip 
students with the understanding and ability to deliver 
change tomorrow. Our school’s participation and 
engagement with PRME has been very active over the 
past two academic years:
•	 Dean Ilian Mihov served as Chair of the PRME Board 
from 2020 to 2023. Under his leadership, the initiative 
updated its framework of action and consolidated its 
role promoting responsible management education 
worldwide.
•	 Hoffmann Institute Executive Director Katell Le 
Goulven has been actively engaged in the PRME 
SIP Impact Sub-Committee, which proposed 
improvements to the reporting framework to be 
followed by all initiative members.
•	 INSEAD sponsored and participated in the 2023 UN 
PRME Global Forum, with a programme focused 
on how business education can advance the 
global sustainable development agenda. Business 
school leaders, faculty, students, businesses and 
sustainable development organizations met in 
New York at the Fordham University Gabelli School 
of Business.
•	 We participated in activities of the initiative’s France 
and Benelux Chapter.
 
United Nations Academic Impact
As part of a network of 1,600 academic institutions, 
think tanks, students, researchers and educational 
partners in more than 150 countries, INSEAD 
collaborates with UN Academic Impact to promote 
sustainable development. 
In academic year 2022-23, our experience partnering 
with Tommy Hilfiger Fashion Frontier Challenge was 
featured on the UNAI website as part of a series on 
how members act for the Sustainable Development 
Goals. Moreover, we started to reference and link each 
of the initiative’s principles with the content of our 
Sustainability Report, which identifies and clarifies how 
we contribute to the UNAI mission.
Other relevant recipients of alumni awards include 
Noelle Homsy MBA’17D, Co-Founder of ENVI Lodges, 
and Martin Donald Murray MBA’15D, founder and CEO 
of waterdrop®.
Global Clubs
Our students and alumni get together in global clubs 
on topics such as energy, women in business and 
positive impact. Their activities combine knowledge 
and action on sustainability, discussing relevant topics 
with renowned practitioners from around the world.
Among the events organized by Alumni Global Clubs 
are the webinars:
•	 “Challenges to Humanitarian Aid to Ukraine and 
How to Help”, by the INDEVOR Alumni Club and 
Global INSEAD Women in Business Clubs, with the 
sponsorship of the Hoffmann Institute
•	 “Fuelling our Future: Rethinking Food and Energy”, 
by INDEVOR and Energy Alumni Clubs, and the 
Community Impact Challenge, in conjunction 
with the INSEAD Alumni Forum Europe, with the 
sponsorship of the Hoffmann Institute
•	 “Using Tech to Eradicate Poverty: The 3D (Dignity, 
Development& Digital) Approach That’s Working in 
Brazil’s Favelas”, by the INSEAD Alumni Association 
Brazil and the INDEVOR Alumni Club
Faculty and remarkable alumni from around the world 
participated in these talks.
Events
Conversations on Sustainability were featured in the 
agenda of various alumni gatherings organised by the 
school:
•	 Dutch Alumni Forum (June 2022) on Corporate 
Sustainability.
•	 Visionaries Conference (March 2022) on ‘From 
Commitment to Action on Climate Change’.
•	 Alumni Forum Americas (March-April 2022), on 
‘Leading Radical Change for a Green Economy’.
•	 Alumni Forum Europe (March 2023) on ‘Social 
Entrepreneurship: Engaging with a Growing 
Movement’
Lifelong Learning
GRI 3-3: TECHNOLOGY / VIRTUAL RESOURCES
We encourage alumni to stay at the forefront of the 
latest trends on sustainability topics so that they 
remain a driving force for good in the world. Through 
the INSEAD Lifelong Learning platform, our alumni 
have access to relevant online and in-person learning 
experiences for their personal career development.
INSEAD Business Sustainability Series
In cooperation with Digital@INSEAD, the Sustainable 
Business Initiative, the Hoffmann Institute, and the 
Lifelong Learning platform, professors Karel Cool 
(Professor of Strategic Management, The BP Chaired 
Professor of European Competitiveness) and Atalay 
Atasu (Professor of Technology and Operations 
Management, The Bianca and James Pitt Chair in 
Environmental Sustainability; Academic Director, 
INSEAD Sustainable Business Initiative) launched the 
INSEAD Business Sustainability Series in 2023.
This series of discussions on aligning sustainability 
and business objectives showcase how INSEAD 
alumni advance sustainability through innovative 
projects and leadership roles in diverse industries and 
sectors. It featured five interactive events between 
April and November 2023, with two of them occurring 
on academic year 2022-23:
•	 Sustainability as a Strategic Opportunity – This 
Masterclass on frameworks for sustainability 
featured Georgina Grenon MBA’99J, Director 
of Environmental Excellence at the Organising 
Committee for the Paris 2024 Olympic and 
Paralympic Games; and Stéphane Germain MBA’94J, 
CEO at GHGSat.
•	 Sustainability around the World: Trends, Impact, 
and Opportunities – This panel discussion on 
regional trends featured Jared Koh, Regional Director 
Americas at the Singapore Economic Development 
Board; Aron Cramer, CEO at BSR; Eunice Sampson, 
Director EY West Africa; Elisa Dierickx MBA 21J, 
Associate at SYSTEMIQ and Board Member 
Fundação Maio Biodiversidade; and Patricia 
Ellen da Silva MBA 05J, Managing Partner Brazil 
at SYSTEMIQ.
Community Impact Challenge (CIC)
SDG 
 13  
This alumni-led initiative was created in 2019 to 
mobilise our global community as a transformative 
force for society and the environment. After the two 
first campaigns to raise awareness on the reduction 
and elimination of plastic pollution and on promoting 
sustainable food habits, the CIC launched the 
StartNOW initiative. This four-week learning challenge 
provided access to resources and a community of 
passionate sustainability experts helping individuals 
and organizations take the next steps on their 
emission reduction journey.
The CIC was named an official accelerator of the UN 
Race to zero Campaigne in recognition of support 
by volunteers, net-zero experts and facilitators that 
enabled over 100 companies take initial steps and over 
2023 UN PRME Global Forum

=== PAGE 20 ===
38
39
SDG Tent
INSEAD fortified its partnership with InTent as sponsor 
of the SDG Tent alongside the 2022 and 2023 Annual 
Meetings of the World Economic Forum in Davos. 
Together with distinguished leaders and experts from 
business, government and academia, we promoted 
discussions on the WEF themes “Working Together, 
Restoring Trust” and “Cooperation in a Fragmented 
World”.
During the 2022 edition, we held three sessions at the 
SDG Tent:
•	 “Renewable Energy, Scarcity and Circularity: A Path 
to Net Zero”, with Atalay Atasu, INSEAD Professor of 
Technology and Operations Management,
•	 “Good for Business, Business for Good”, with 
Morten Bennedsen, INSEAD Visiting Professor of 
Economics, and
•	 “Delivering the Promise of Responsible Business 
Education”, with Peter Zemsky, INSEAD Deputy Dean.
In 2023, we held a panel discussion on “Achieving the 
Goal of Universal Health Coverage by 2030: Successes 
and Challenges from Emerging Market Countries”, 
moderated by INSEAD Professor of Economics and 
The Stone Chaired Professor in Wealth Inequality Mark 
Stabile, and a complementary masterclass by INSEAD 
Professor of Strategy and Management Subi Rangan 
on “Integrating Income and Impact: Three Secrets”.
Summaries of sessions in 2022 and 2023 are available 
and videos can be found on our YouTube channel.
Cartier Women’s Initiative
As founding academic partner of the Cartier 
Women’s Initiative, we are proud to contribute our 
expertise in entrepreneurship, innovation, leadership 
and impact-driven business in support of women 
entrepreneurs worldwide. In the reporting period, we 
hosted two editions of the INSEAD-Cartier Impact 
Entrepreneurship Programme on our Middle East and 
Europe Campus, respectively. More than 70 woman 
social entrepreneurs received mentoring to scale their 
business and their impact.
ChangeNOW Summit
Since 2020, the Hoffmann Institute has led INSEAD 
efforts as major Academic Partner of the ChangeNOW 
Summit, the world’s largest gathering of solutions 
for the planet. Held at the Grand Palais Éphémère in 
Paris each May, Summit in 2022 and 2023 focused on 
gender inequity, fostering coalitions and partnership-
building, as well as supporting biodiversity and impact 
entrepreneurship.
Our participation in ChangeNOW 2022 highlighted the 
potential of women entrepreneurs to drive change and 
explored the workplace and outcomes of the COVID-19 
pandemic. Collaboration between the Hoffmann 
Institute, the INSEAD Gender Initiative,  and the 
Cartier Women’s Initiative made it possible to host the 
Gender and the Future of Work forum. At the forum, 
we unveiled new research on understanding women’s 
professional experiences relative to men, exploring 
gender-related and cultural differences and the impact 
of the COVID-19 pandemic on gender balance.
In 2023, building on the strong connection with the 
Cartier Women’s Initiative, we jointly hosted an Impact 
Entrepreneurship Reunion for more than 80 graduates 
of the INSEAD Social Entrepreneurship Programme 
(ISEP) and the first cohort of participants from the 
Hans Wahl Impact Entrepreneurship Programme 
(HWIEP). Graduates connected on a learning and 
networking expedition with the global gathering of 
social entrepreneurs as a backdrop. The reunion 
concluded with a workshop and keynote presentation 
on “Why Impact Entrepreneurs Matter in a World of 
ESG” by INSEAD Professor Jasjit Singh.
 
Le Club Les Echos Débats - Engagement 
Responsable
We continued our partnership with Les Echos, one 
of the most credible financial publications in France, 
contributing to conversations with leaders from 
the public and private sector, with participation by 
INSEAD students. Videos of all nine discussions held 
in academic years 2021-22 and 2022-23 on topics 
related to different industries and their linkage to 
corporate social responsibility and sustainability are 
available here.
Global Business School Network
We continued our engagement with the Global 
Business School Network, an international coalition 
that improves access to locally relevant management 
education for the developing world.
During the 2021-22 academic year, INSEAD Africa 
Initiative Academic Director Professor Prashant 
Yadav and Executive Director Dr. Vinika Rao, along 
with Hoffmann Institute Executive Director Katell Le 
Goulven, joined the GBSN Beyond: Virtual Conference 
Reimagined as panellists. During academic year 
2022-23, the INSEAD Africa Initiative joined forces 
with GBSN to offer the GBSN-INSEAD Africa Faculty 
Fellowship. The fellowship supports African educators 
committed to advancing the quality of their learning 
and teaching with resources developed by our 
institution. More information on the outcomes of this 
fellowship are available in the Centres and Initiatives 
section of the Hoffmann Institute Annual Report.
UN Women #HeForShe Alliance 
UN Women #HeForShe Alliance 
In September 2021, our school joined the #HeForShe 
initiative with commitments to achieve gender balance 
on the Board of Directors and continue promoting 
gender equity at all school levels. Hoffmann Institute 
Asia Director Dr. Vinika Rao represents INSEAD in co-
chairing the initiative’s Allyship Committee.
Stewardship Asia Centre
 
INSEAD partnered with the Stewardship Asia Centre to 
launch and curate the Steward Leadership 25 (SL25), 
an annual listing of the 25 best projects of steward 
leadership excellence in the Asia-Pacific region. The 
2023 SL25 was revealed during the Stewardship 
Leadership Summit 2023.
Members of the INSEAD community also participated 
in events organized by the Centre, such as the 
Stewardship Asia Roundtable 2022 and the Steward 
Leadership Summit 2023.
Business Schools for Climate Leadership 
(BS4CL)
The BS4CL is a partnership of eight leading business 
schools working together to address the climate crisis 
and raise awareness of issues, challenges, and actions 
needed to help business tackle climate change. 
INSEAD participates in this initiative as a founding 
member, along with Cambridge Judge Business 
School, HEC Paris, IE Business School, IESE Business 
School, the International Institute for Management 
Development, London Business School and Saïd 
Business School at the University of Oxford.
In the reporting period, the school has contributed to 
the following BS4CL activities:
•	 Produced a Climate Leadership Toolkit to provide 
leaders with materials to assess their readiness to 
act on climate change. Our school’s contribution 
focused on Climate Change and Inequality. The 
toolkit was presented at the COP26 UN Climate 
Change Conference in Glasgow and during the 
INSEAD Earth Week 2022.
•	 Launched a first and a second series of webinars 
to share content and analysis, help businesses 
understand how to develop and meet environmental 
pledges and targets, and accelerate action and 
identify business needs ahead of COP27 and the 
COP15 UN Biodiversity Conference.
Impact Entrepreneurship Reunion participants at ChangeNOW 2023

=== PAGE 21 ===
40
41
 4. Walk the Talk
At INSEAD, we strive for responsible management 
of people and operations in line with our institutional 
mission, values, and promise of an outstanding 
educational environment. We work to integrate 
sustainability across all of our locations, departments, 
teams and roles and regularly review policies, codes 
and procedures, and community adherence to them. 
We believe that collective action for change is possible 
by maximising the positive potential of our knowledge 
and resources. 
This chapter highlights our sustainability practices 
in two main categories – People and Operations. 
Additional information is also provided on our 
relationship with suppliers and our economic 
performance;
•	 Convened researchers and alumni from eight 
member schools for the First BS4CL Conference, on 
1 and 2 June 2023 on the IESE campus in Barcelona 
to collaborate around collective impact and ambition 
to combat climate change. The conference featured 
Pierre-Francois Thaler MBA’99D, co-CEO and co-
founder of EcoVadis, as one of the speakers.
 
Other Engagements
In the reporting period we proudly contributed to 
other initiatives promoting social entrepreneurship 
and sustainability, such as TiE’s Southeast Asia 
Women’s Global Pitch Competition, the Financial 
Times Responsible Business Education magazine, 
the EMFD “Mainstreaming the SDGs in Business 
Education” workshop, HEC Paris “Climate Days’’, 
Eastern Academy of Management International’s 
19th Biennial Conference, AACSB’s Societal Impact 
Conference, among others.
INSEAD strives to engage around sustainability and 
our founding values. We remain open for collaboration 
and constantly seek opportunities to increase 
engagement.
Participants at the first BS4CL Conference – IESE Campus, Barcelona
Our Highlights
Improve employment engagement, health and safety at work and recruitment practices 
with new policies and activities.
Integrated Diversity, Equity and Inclusion as a principle across multiple activities on 
awareness and human resources management.
Launched Phase 1 of the re-imagination of our Europe Campus with sustainability at the 
project’s core.
Committed to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 67% by 2035.
Launched a Climate Journey taskforce to improve measurement and analysis of our 
greenhouse gas emissions and identify potential emissions reduction actions.
Continued investing to improve efficiency of our energy consumption across locations.
Engaged in sustainable investment through our endowment

=== PAGE 22 ===
42
43
People
GRI 3-3: HUMAN CAPITAL/RESOURCES
UNAI PRINCIPLE 10 
Academic year 2021-22 marked the reconnection of 
INSEAD staff and teams across locations, giving new 
energy to continue delivering professional support 
to students, faculty, clients and participants. Internal 
reorganisation in the reporting period ensures the 
school can prioritise future-focused development and 
drive profitable growth. This also led to the creation 
of new groups and the reformulation of existing ones, 
a process that helped identify new innovations and 
efficiencies.
To improve employment engagement, the school 
launched the Let’s Make it Better staff survey with the 
support of Gallup. Survey results showed the impact of 
COVID-19 context on our staff. Over fifty focus group 
sessions across the school gave texture to the survey’s 
results and provided the basis for a comprehensive 
engagement improvement plan at both school and 
department levels.
In November 2021, the school introduced a Hybrid 
Working Policy to provide staff across locations 
with greater flexibility for teleworking, while assuring 
an integrated community and the continuity and 
quality of our operations. According to this policy, 
teleworking takes place on a voluntary basis and 
there are considerations according to the nature of 
each position. The policy also considers additional 
teleworking days per week for pregnant employees, 
employees with disabilities or health conditions, or 
those 55 years of age or older.
This section details our workforce, human resources 
policies and people management practices across our 
four locations, in accordance with laws and regulations 
applicable in each jurisdiction.
Employee Statistics
GRI 2-7, 405-1
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 2
SDGs  5   8   10  
At the end of the reporting period, the INSEAD 
workforce totalled 1,084 employees across our 
locations, with 67% women. This majority is seen on 
each of our three campuses and at the San Francisco 
Hub. Total employee count continued a trend of 
expansion, with a 0.9% growth in academic year 
2021-22 over the previous year and a 5.9% growth for 
year 2022-23.
When examined by location, our San Francisco Hub 
and Europe Campus showed the highest growth ratio 
of employee headcount in the reporting period, with 
33% and 7%, respectively. Over 90% of our employees 
work under a permanent contract and full-time status.
Total
1,084
Total
652
Total
44
Total
380
Total
8
Total employees in academic year 2022-23, by gender
All locations
Europe
Asia
Middle East
USA
n	Female
n	Male
354
33%
730
67%
189
29% 
19
43%
143
38%
3
38%
463
71%
25
57%
237
62%
5
62%
12  Notes:
- Employees are defined as individuals who maintain an employment relationship with INSEAD
- All figures as of 31/08/2023
GRI 2-8, 203-2
SDG  
8
 
 
In addition to the community of employees, INSEAD’s 
business relations with suppliers have a positive 
impact through indirect employment. Around 350 
individuals are indirectly employed by our organisation, 
in all our locations, via supply chain support.
GRI 401-1
SDGs  5   8   10  
In academic years 2021-22 and 2022-23, the number 
of staff hired under a permanent contract was 135 and 
117, respectively. Turnover statistics exhibit a declining 
trend overall over the same period, except for our 
Middle East Campus.
Under permanent contract
Under temporary contract
Full-time employees
Part-time employees
Location
AY 2021-22
AY 2022-23
Female
Male
Total
Female
Male
Total
Europe
433
174
607
463
189
652
Asia
227
141
368
237
143
380
Middle East
26
17
43
25
19
44
USA
4
2
6
5
3
8
Total
690
334
1,024
730
354
1,084
Location
AY 2021-22
AY 2022-23
Female
Male
Total
Female
Male
Total
Europe
410
159
569
434
164
598
Asia
213
119
332
223
126
349
Middle East
25
13
38
23
15
38
USA
4
1
5
5
1
6
Total
652
292
944
685
306
991
Location
AY 2021-22
AY 2022-23
Female
Male
Total
Female
Male
Total
Europe
23
15
38
29
25
54
Asia
14
22
36
14
17
31
Middle East
1
4
5
2
4
6
USA
0
1
1
0
2
2
Total
38
42
80
45
48
93
Location
AY 2021-22
AY 2022-23
Female
Male
Total
Female
Male
Total
Europe
388
163
551
408
179
587
Asia
219
140
359
230
142
372
Middle East
26
17
43
25
19
44
USA
4
1
5
5
2
7
Total
637
321
958
668
342
1,010
Location
AY 2021-22
AY 2022-23
Female
Male
Total
Female
Male
Total
Europe
45
11
56
55
10
65
Asia
8
1
9
7
1
8
Middle East
0
0
0
0
0
0
USA
0
1
1
0
1
1
Total
53
13
66
62
12
74
Employee statistics by academic year,  
location and gender 12 
Total employees
Location
AY 2021-22
AY 2022-23
Female
Male
Total
Female
Male
Total
Europe
56
21
77
47
19
66
Asia
32
23
55
29
18
47
Middle East
2
1
3
2
1
3
USA
0
0
0
1
0
1
Total
90
45
135
79
38
117
Location
AY 2021-22
AY 2022-23
Female
Male
Total
Female
Male
Total
Europe
13.7%
17.2%
14.7%
9.6%
12.7%
10.5%
Asia
15.2%
16.8%
15.8%
12.0%
13.3%
12.5%
Middle East
6.5%
3.8%
5.6%
13.5%
3.8%
10.3%
USA
10.0%
50.0%
21.4%
12.5%
0.0%
12.5%
Total
13.9%
16.7%
14.8%
10.6%
12.6%
11.2%
New employee hires and turnover statistics,  
by academic year, location and gender

=== PAGE 23 ===
44
45
Disability Employment and Awareness
SDG  10
Touching on a specific pillar of DEI, our Employment 
and Disability Policy has been in place since 2009. 
This policy outlines processes to identify individuals 
who might need support as a worker with a disability. 
In doing so, we commit to their inclusion in our 
professional environment.
Each year around mid-November, we celebrate 
the INSEAD Disability Awareness Week, in line 
with the European Disability Employment Week. 
In 2021, the 13th edition featured a dynamic main 
activity called “World of Silence”, where over 100 
employees on our Europe Campus learned about 
non-verbal communication in French and English 
guided by individuals with hearing disabilities. As a 
complementary activity on this topic, in June 2022, 
our Europe Campus welcomed Virginie Delalande 
for a Diversity Awareness Conference titled “Give 
up? Never!”. The event was also broadcasted to our 
other locations.
In the 14th edition of Disability Awareness Week, we 
launched an online challenge around disability in the 
workplace. This allowed staff to learn more about 
the topic and further engage with gifts made by a 
handicap partner association.
Health and Safety at Work
GRI 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-6, 403-7, 403-8, 
403-9, 403-10
SDGs  3
  
8
  
16
In the two academic years spanning the reporting 
period, INSEAD maintained momentum on health 
and safety at work by issuing a policy on the topic, 
applicable to our staff, faculty, customers, participants, 
and students in all locations.
Global and campus-specific committees are in place 
to review incidents and encourage initiatives that 
promote a safe and positive work environment. For 
the Europe Campus, the Economic and Social Council 
(Comité Social et Economique), the nurse, and the 
HQSE Expert (Health, Safety, Quality, and Environment) 
work together with support of our health service 
provider ACMS. They ensure good working conditions, 
run prevention campaigns, and take preventive actions 
to reduce occupational risks (work set-up studies with 
corrective measures with ergonomic equipment, etc.). 
Training on first aid and fire training is periodically 
offered to staff and faculty members.
Psychological counselling is available in both our 
Europe and Asia locations for students and staff 
seeking professional therapy and support. A well-being 
service is also offered to members of faculty and staff, 
including group and individual support, re-onboarding 
programme after long leave, and more. 
As part of our ongoing risk management process, 
the Risk Control and Audit Department discusses, 
reviews, assesses and updates health and safety risks, 
including review and management of the professional 
risk evaluation mandated by French law.
It is important to note that due to the nature of 
educational services, activities carried out at INSEAD 
locations do not pose any major or significant hazard 
to the health of students, participants, faculty, staff, 
suppliers, and visitors.
In the reporting period, no work-related injuries were 
reported on our Asia and Middle East Campuses. On 
our Europe Campus, data on work-related injuries is 
reported per calendar year. In years 2021 and 2022, 
two and three work-related injuries with a subsequent 
medical leave were reported, respectively. Between 
January and August 2023, six work-related injuries 
Recruitment
In November 2022, a Global Recruitment Policy was 
established as a framework to recruit high-quality 
staff with skills, competences and values required to 
fulfil the school’s mission, objectives and strategy. 
The policy is valid for all recruitment processes 
of permanent and temporary (over three months) 
staff, full or part-time positions, and of interns 
and apprentices. 13
This policy establishes open competition, merit-
based decisions, inclusiveness, diversity and non-
discrimination as general recruitment principles. 
Conditions to avoid conflicts of interest and to ensure 
professionalism in the process are also included.
Collective Agreements
GRI 2-30
SDG  8
Collective bargaining agreements are regulated 
differently according to the laws applicable in each 
of our locations. On our Europe Campus, all faculty 
and staff are covered by company agreements and 
labour codes, with employees in our Residences 
following a specific collective bargaining agreement 
for their sector. Each October, the school and 
union representatives engage in Annual Mandatory 
Negotiations (NAO), where discussions and exchanges 
concerning matters pertaining to salaries, working 
conditions and social benefits take place. Results of 
NAO negotiations are communicated to staff.
For the Middle East Campus, no agreement of this kind 
is applicable.
Diversity and Inclusion
GRI 3-3: DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
UNAI PRINCIPLES 4, 7, 9, 10
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 2
True to our institutional mission, INSEAD embraces 
diversity in all dimensions as a foundational value 
of our school and an asset for staff professional 
development and collective performance. The unique 
background of each of our students, faculty and staff 
contributes to the learning process by promoting 
exposure to different perspectives, viewpoints and 
experiences.
GRI 202-2, 405-1
SDGs  5
  
8
An indicator of the plurality of backgrounds and link 
to each campus context is the number of local senior 
managers. On our Europe Campus, the number of 
senior managers with French nationality was 39 in 
academic year 2021-22 and 42 in academic year 2022-
23. For our Asia Campus in year 2021-22, three senior 
managers had Singapore nationality, a number that 
increased to four in year 2022-23. On our Middle East 
Campus and North America Hub location, no senior 
managers had the country’s nationality.
Our positive approach to multiculturality is evident in 
our Code of Conduct, which highlights the guiding 
principle of equal opportunity for recruitment and 
promotion across INSEAD operations. More details 
about the Code can be found in the first section of this 
Sustainability Report.
Gender Equality Statistics
GRI 405-2
SDGs  5
  
8
  
10
According to French work regulations, organisations 
with more than 50 staff members are obliged to 
compile and publish a Professional Equality Index 
(Index de l’égalité professionnelle). This practice aims 
to promote progress on equal pay between women 
and men.
The following table reports results of this index under 
five criteria – salaries, salary increases, promotions, 
maternity leave and representation at top management 
level. Since the Index is compiled for each calendar 
year, we report the results based on data for years 
2021 and 2022.
Age Group
AY 2021-22
AY 2022-23
Female
Male
Total
Female
Male
Total
Under 30
27
12
39
22
18
40
30 to 50
60
31
91
53
18
71
Over 50
3
2
5
4
2
6
Total
90
45
135
79
38
117
Age Group
AY 2021-22
AY 2022-23
Female
Male
Total
Female
Male
Total
Under 30
13.7%
17.2%
14.7%
9.6%
12.7%
10.5%
30 to 50
15.2%
16.8%
15.8%
12.0%
13.3%
12.5%
Over 50
6.5%
3.8%
5.6%
13.5%
3.8%
10.3%
Total
10.0%
50.0%
21.4%
12.5%
0.0%
12.5%
New employee hires and turnover, by academic year, 
age group and gender
Professional Equality Index for Europe Campus
13  Policy does not apply to faculty and researchers hired under processes outside the management of Human Resources.
Criteria
2021
2022
Pay gap
31/40
33/40
Individual increase rate difference
20/20
20/20
Promotion rate difference
15/15
15/15
Percentage of employees having benefited 
from an increase in the year following their 
return from maternity leave
15/15
15/15
Number of employees of the under-repre-
sented gender among the 10 highest paid 
employees
5/10
5/10
Index (out of 100 points)
86
88
Notes:
- Data includes employees from Europe Campus and its Residences (in 
French, Unité économique et sociale).
- Indexes based on 2021 and 2022 data were issued in 2022 and 2023, 
respectively. Data for each year is indicated in the table.
Notes:
 Employee hires and turnover statistics only consider individuals under a 
permanent contract. Transfers between locations are not considered in these 
statistics.
- Turnover is calculated by the formula: (((Joiners + Leavers) /2) / (Permanent 
contract employees). Headcount of employees under a permanent contract 
at the beginning of the period is considered.
Europe Campus staff at the INSEAD Disability Awareness Day 2021

=== PAGE 24 ===
46
47
were reported. Most of them were joint and ligament 
traumas due to falls and slips. No mortal accidents 
were reported for any location.
Learning and Professional Development
GRI 404-2
UNAI PRINCIPLES 2, 3
SDGs  5
  
8
  
10
INSEAD maintains internal and external resources 
to promote the professional development of our 
staff. These resources include webinars, talks and 
workshops led by faculty, as well as our Research and 
Learning Hub catalogue.
Additionally, all staff have access to the LinkedIn 
Learning library with instructional video content on 
the latest software, creative and business skills. This 
renowned platform contains over 16,700 pieces of 
learning content – videos, courses, learning paths, 
exercises and audio sessions. All activities are 
certified and associated to a LinkedIn account, so they 
remain available during the professional career of the 
employee.
GRI 404-1
UNAI PRINCIPLES 2, 3
SDGs  4
  5
  
8
  
10
GRI 404-3
Staff performance and career development reviews 
are held regularly throughout the year. In the academic 
years reported, these processes were revised to 
improve their effectiveness. Results of this change will 
be reported in the next edition of this Report.
Leave
GRI 401-3
SDGs  5
  
8
Our staff are entitled to different types of leave, each 
of them suited to the specific conditions of life events. 
Available types of leave vary according to location and 
applicable laws.
Maternity, Paternity, Parental and Adoption 
Leaves
On our Europe Campus, staff benefit from maternity 
leave (prenatal and postnatal), with the duration 
dependent on each family’s situation. Partners benefit 
from paternity, parental, and childcare leave in addition 
to days of absence established by law. A leave is also 
given in case of adoption, with similar conditions to 
maternity leave.
On our Asia Campus, staff working with us for at least 
three calendar months before the child’s birth benefit 
from maternity leave. Part of the entitled leave can be 
shared with the partner, following criteria established 
by the government and in addition to the two-week 
paternity leave at birth. Leave in case of adoption is 
also given to both parents under similar conditions to 
maternity and paternity leave benefits.
On the Middle East Campus, employees benefit from 
maternity leave of 65 working days, with possible 
extension subject to medical report. Partners benefit 
from a five-day leave in the six months following the 
child’s birth.
Other Family Situations
On the Asia Campus, each working parent can benefit 
from childcare and extended childcare paid leave, with 
the length depending on the child’s age. Additional 
days of unpaid infant care leave are also an option, but 
this benefit is rarely used by our staff.
Marriage and compassionate or bereavement leave 
is also possible for employees on our Europe, Asia 
and Middle East Campuses. For our Europe and Asia 
Campuses, a family solidarity leave is also available 
for employees who assist a person in their family or 
household with a medical condition.
Operations
INSEAD integrates sustainability across our global 
operations. Our Chief Operating Officer works with the 
Directors of Operations and Campus Services and their 
teams to oversee activities related to: 
•	 Building maintenance and renovation
•	 Infrastructure and grounds
•	 Technical services
•	 Security
•	 Printing
•	 Catering
•	 Bookstore
•	 Accommodation
•	 Reception
•	 Mail and shipping
•	 Logistic support for events
•	 Transportation
And more…
GRI 304-1
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 2
SDGs  6
  
15
Since 1967, our Europe Campus has been located on 
a site adjacent to the Fontainebleau Forest, one of 
France’s Exceptional Forests (Forêt d’Exception) as 
categorised by the National Forestry Office and part 
of UNESCO’s World Network of Biosphere Reserves. 
This location hosts over 250 trees including oak, pine, 
maple and other species, all receiving special care 
and replaced as needed to preserve the beauty of 
the grounds.
Our Asia Campus is located in the Knowledge Hub 
district of Singapore, near the one-north development 
area, which includes a complex of parks forming 
a corridor that connects different sectors. Multiple 
varieties of trees and shrubs in the park support 
bird populations and other wildlife. The site is under 
supervision of the Singapore National Parks Board.
GRI 3-3: INFRASTRUCTURE
In academic years 2021-22 and 2022-23, sustainability 
guided management of our operations more than ever 
before. Along with the reopening of our classrooms, 
amphitheatres, hotels and restaurants after strict 
controls due to the pandemic, other global and regional 
challenges such as climate change and the energy 
crisis in Europe motivated action to optimise resource 
use. This section describes actions undertaken in 
response to these challenges and their results.
Average Hours of Employee Training, by Gender
Gender
AY 2020-21
AY 2021-22
AY 2022-23
Female
7,11
4,70
11,38
Male
4,92
2,24
6,59
Total
6,31
3,90
9,81
Re-imagining our Europe Campus
GRI 203-1, 203-2 
SDG 
  9  
In academic year 2022-23, the Europe Campus Renewal (ECR) project kicked off as part of our Operations 
management. A 10-year long campus re-imagination masterplan, the ECR project features a new design 
for twenty buildings, based on the school’s record of excellence and future ambition to bring together 
strategy, heritage, people, and the place. The ECR architectural design gives preference to fostering human 
connection and sustainability, leveraging and integrating the unique setting of the Fontainebleau Forest.
Implementation of the ECR project started with pilot office spaces in the West Wing of our Europe Campus 
to test the viability of a geothermal installation that will help greatly reduce the energy consumption to 
heat or cool buildings. Phase 1 of the project involves renovation of the Viatte Building, which will start in 
academic year 2023-24.

=== PAGE 25 ===
48
49
Emissions
INSEAD Climate Journey
GRI 3-3: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
UNAI PRINCIPLE 9
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 2
In February 2022, INSEAD announced a commitment 
to reduce Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse emissions 
by 67% by 2035 from 2019 levels, with the goal of 
reaching net-zero emissions by 2050. In line with the 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change (UNFCCC) 1.5-degree target and covering 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions, this pledge includes a 
school-wide plan and targets for reduction. Action 
includes improvements in energy sourcing and 
management efficiency to behavioural and operational 
changes.
To better manage the progress of our pledge, a 
dedicated INSEAD Climate Journey taskforce was 
created with members from staff, faculty, students 
and alumni to bring the broad community into the 
mission. Management of this taskforce is led by 
the Chief Operations Officer and Hoffmann Institute 
Sustainability and Climate Initiatives Manager Maria 
Fedorova. This taskforce developed a methodology 
to estimate emissions from schoolwide activities, 
including a set of principles for data collection and 
processing. The carbon management SaaS platform 
Traace supported measurement efforts following 
national and international methodologies.
In academic year 2022-23, the taskforce considered 
the carbon emissions estimation and started a 
process of analysis and consultation to examine 
Scope 3 emissions, including inherent risks, impacts 
and opportunities on our operations, supply chain and 
air travel. True “business as a force for good”, INSEAD 
will inform, educate, and engage employees, students, 
participants, and alumni to influence these Scope 3 
emissions downwards.
Assessment
GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3
SDGs  12
  
13
  
15
In January 2023, INSEAD carried out the standardised 
measurement of its carbon footprint for activities 
across all four locations. This was the first emission 
assessment following the carbon reduction pledge.
In accordance with the GHG Protocol international 
standard, this assessment includes Scopes 1, 2 and 
3, and a uniform set of principles for data collection 
and processing. This assessment was supported 
by the carbon management SaaS platform Traace 
using national and international methodologies 
(GHG Protocol, ISO/TR 14069, French Bilan Carbone 
and BEGES) and considering emission factors from 
independent life-cycle assessments and environmental 
government agencies.
Energy
GRI 3-3: ENERGY
GRI 302-1, 302-4
UNAI PRINCIPLE 9
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 2
SDGs  7
  
8
  
12   
As in previous years, our Campus Services teams 
continued to make considerable investments and 
improvements to facilities to better monitor energy 
consumption, increase renewable energy use and 
reduce non-renewable energy use while optimising 
efficiency.
As the risk of energy supply shortage and shutdowns 
impacting our Europe Campus increased towards the 
end of year 2022 and beginning of 2023, the Campus 
Services team accelerated efforts to reduce energy 
consumption in collaboration with other departments. 
A taskforce was formed to plan business continuity 
and safety of people and facilities in the event of 
planned power cuts, which ultimately did not occur.
Energy consumption on the Europe Campus fell by 
35% in academic year 2022-23 when compared to 
year 2021-22 14 due to a series of targeted actions and 
changes in management:
•	 Secured an Energy Performance Contract with 
an operation and maintenance subcontractor for 
technical facilities in early 2022 
•	 Replaced three cooling units with higher efficiency 
units
•	 Modernised the lightning system with automatic 
movement detection in multiple buildings
•	 Installed a hot water insulation system in the 
technical galleries (with governmental support)
•	 Replaced 450 fan coil units with automated 
regulation
On our Middle East Campus, energy consumption 
was reduced after adjusting temperature set points for 
cooling, adjusting timing for cooling and lighting, and 
increasing awareness of energy saving measures.
“The greenhouse gas reduction commitment applies to INSEAD’s operations in facilities. 
It is important to our past, current and future students that the school ‘walks the talk’, 
when it speaks about sustainability. I am pleased to see the broad support received during 
the pledge preparation from our students, customers, faculty, Board, and employees. We 
will need everyone’s attention to reach our ambitious goal”
Attila Cselotei, 
Chief Operating Officer
Carbon footprint assessment results,  
Academic Year 2021-22
Carbon footprint assessment results, Academic Year 2021-22 
as share of total (%)
Category
kg CO2
% of Total
Direct emissions from stationary com-
bustion units
2 427 706,0
16,6%
Direct fugitive emissions
14 968,7
0,1%
Sub-total Scope 1
2 442 674,7
16,7%
Indirect emissions linked to electricity 
consumption
509 614,9
3,5%
Sub-total Scope 2
509 614,9
3,5%
Purchased goods and services
6 149 461,7
42,1%
Capital goods
573 337,4
3,9%
Fuel and energy-related activities a/
481 607,7
3,3%
Upstream transportation and distribu-
tion
29,7
0,0%
Waste generated in operations
407 420,4
2,8%
Business travel
4 025 628,4
27,6%
Sub-total Scope 3
11 637 485,2
79,8%
Total
14 589 774,8
100%
Scope 1
17%
Scope 2
3%
Scope 3
80%
Purchased goods
and services
42%
Business travel
28%
Capital goods
4%
Fuel and energy 
related activities
3%
Waste generated
in operations
3%
a/ For activities not included in categories of Scopes 1 or 2.
Methodological Notes:
- Activities included in the Business travel category for Scope 3 are 
transportation (air and train) of faculty and staff, paid by INSEAD, for INSEAD-
related activities.
- Amortization of building construction activities were not assessed.
14 Combined reduction of gas and electricity consumption.
Energy Consumption by Campus, in Kwh
Location
AY 2021-22
AY 2022-23
Electricity, 
Renewable
Electricity, Non 
Renewable
Gas
Total
Electricity, 
Renewable
Electricity, Non 
Renewable
Gas
Total
Europe
8,576,000
6,236,714
14,812,714
7,588,000
5,248,000
12,836,000
Asia
108,765
4,017,393
53,189
4,179,347
100,028
4,007,326
63,760
4,171,114
Middle 
East
65,828
263,313
-
329,141
63,487
253,948
-
317,435
Total
174,593
12,856,706
6,289,903
19,321,202
163,515
11,849,274
5,311,760
17,324,549
Materials and Waste
GRI 3-3: RESOURCE CONSUMPTION AND WASTE 
GENERATION
UNAI PRINCIPLE 9
UN PRME PRINCIPLE 2
As a business school providing educational services, 
materials used to develop our activities are mostly 
renewable, non-hazardous manufactured goods and 
parts. They are fully sourced from external suppliers 
and, when possible, we source them with recycled 
components. When a material is already on campus 
but has been previously used, we reuse or recycle it – 
this is mostly the case for furniture.
A non-exhaustive list of materials used on our 

=== PAGE 26 ===
50
51
Some of the anticipated changes to prevent and/
or reduce waste include, for example, replacing 
disposable with washable tableware on our Europe 
Campus. At a school-level, we plan to implement a 
communications plan to raise awareness among 
our community on the use of paper and food waste 
generated, in addition to existing signage promoting 
the three Rs – Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. We will 
continue hosting side event activities for Earth Week, 
including workshops to encourage and educate our 
students, faculty and staff on how to reuse materials.. 
Water
GRI 3-3: RESOURCE CONSUMPTION AND WASTE 
GENERATION
GRI 303-1, 303-4, 303-5
SDGs  
6
  
12  
All our locations use water provided by local suppliers. 
This resource is mainly used for sanitary purposes, 
in areas like restrooms, restaurants and cafes, hotel 
and residences and fitness rooms. We also use water 
for landscape watering and cleaning of all facilities. A 
high proportion of our location’s effluence is disposed 
of through local water networks. Our Europe and Asia 
Campuses have rainwater recovery systems installed.
As our locations opened back up, water consumption 
in academic year 2021-22 was, on average, 38,4% 
higher than the previous year. Our Europe Campus 
saw the most increase compared with our Asia and 
Middle East Campuses. In academic year 2022-23, 
water consumption decreased at our Europe and 
Asia locations by 19.3% and 0.4%, respectively, with a 
notable exception for the Middle East Campus.
Campus
AY 2020-21
AY 2021-22
AY 2022-23
Europe
7,414
14,285
11,528
Asia
27,344
33,868
33,744
Middle East
281
358
588
Total
35,039
48,511
45,860
Supply Chain
GRI 3-3: SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT
UNAI PRINCIPLES 6, 9
Our Procurement department continued its 
engagement with extending the internal policies and 
practices of responsible business to the supply chain. 
A clause on Sustainability is included in all contracts, 
stating our expectative for suppliers to be mindful 
of our commitment to contribute to the Sustainable 
Development Goals through our activities.
Moreover, our Supplier Code of Conduct, established 
in early 2021, states a requirement for suppliers to 
engage with long-term environmental, social and 
economic value in all products and services they 
provide. The code also encourages them to report and 
communicate their progress on sustainable practices.
On ethical business practices, we demand that 
suppliers be familiar with and respect the laws, 
regulations and guidelines relevant to their operations, 
wherever these may be. The Code also prohibits 
passive or active corruption, whether it includes 
government officials or not, fraud and other related 
misdoings.
On environmental practices, we require our suppliers 
to practice a precautionary approach, minimise impact 
and implement environmentally friendly technologies.
On people management practices, the Supplier 
Code of Conduct states that suppliers must 
respect international conventions on labour rights, 
as stated by the International Labour Office. We 
also require suppliers to support and respect the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to have zero 
tolerance with child labour, compulsory labour and 
discriminatory practices, and to provide compensation 
according to relevant minimum wage regulations.
GRI 205-2
SDG  
16
 
At the end of the reporting period, 121 of our 3,770 
active suppliers have signed the Supplier Code of 
Conduct: 63 suppliers in our Europe campus, 43 in our 
Asia campus, 12 in our Middle East campus, and 3 in 
our hub in the United States.
GRI 204-1
SDG  
8
 
Regarding our procurement spending on local 
suppliers, considering “local” as based in each 
location’s country, we can report progress in 
comparison to academic year 2020-21. On our Europe 
Campus, 56% of our suppliers are locally based, on 
our Asia Campus 63%, on our Middle East Campus 
46% and at our San Francisco Hub 72% of suppliers 
are local.
GRI 308-1, 308-2, 414-1, 414-2
SDG  
8
 
In line with the Supplier Code of Conduct, we have 
the right to conduct reviews and/or audits on supplier 
compliance to the environmental and social criteria 
stated in it. In the reporting period, we have performed 
evaluations to our suppliers, with the support of the 
EcoVadis platform, where 85 scorecards being shared 
with us.
For major suppliers, we carried a comprehensive 
review of their risks, impacts, policies, practices and 
performance in environmental and social issues. In the 
reporting period, 23 suppliers were assessed, with 8 
of them being identified with significant and potential 
negative impacts, addressed with a discussion on 
possible corrective actions according to the supplier’s 
industry and scale.
locations includes recycled paper, cardboard, 
newspapers, aluminium, plastic and glass receptacles, 
light bulbs, personal protective equipment and IT 
devices such as multifunction printers, desktop 
and laptop computers, monitors, chargers and 
other accessories.
GRI 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5
SDGs  8
  
12   
On-campus catering and dining is an important 
service offered at our campuses and a source of 
biowaste. On our Europe Campus, all biowaste is 
sorted and collected. On our Middle East Campus, 
food waste is collected and transformed into organic 
fertiliser through a composting process and used on 
indoor plants. On our Asia Campus, coffee grounds 
and other forms of biowaste are used to feed plants 
with nutrients.
Hazardous waste, generated in a minimal proportion 
due to maintenance and cleaning activities in our 
locations, is properly managed according to local 
regulations while protecting our staff’s health.
The internal management system in place at each 
location makes it possible to centralise, segregate 
and weigh waste before it is collected by third-party 
companies and recycled or diverted to landfills, 
according to the facilities available in each of our 
locations. For our Asia Campus, general waste is 
incinerated in a waste-to-energy plant.
Waste Management by Campus, in Kilograms
Water Consumption by Campus, in m3
Location
AY 2020-21
AY 2021-22
AY 2022-23
Recycled
Non- 
Recycled
Total
Recycled
Non- 
Recycled
Total
Recycled
Non- 
Recycled
Total
Europe
3,928
6,142
10,070
12,536
18,805
31,341
14,738
22,108
36,846
Asia
10,194
95,820
106,014
11,755
95,109
106,864
17,970
101,832
119,802
Middle 
East
798
438
1,236
632
881
1,513
662
1,943
2,605
Total
14,920
102,400
117,320
24,923
114,795
139,718
33,370
125,883
159,253

=== PAGE 27 ===
52
53
Our EcoVadis Assessment
Since 2014, our sustainability practices have been 
periodically assessed by EcoVadis, a global solution 
provider of sustainability ratings. EcoVadis helps 
clients assess how well they integrate sustainability 
and CSR principles into their management systems 
under four categories – Environment, Labour and 
Human Rights, Ethics and Sustainable Procurement.
Each year, the Hoffmann Institute leads engagement 
with departments across the school, with information 
sharing and collaboration playing a key role towards a 
successful assessment and feedback on integration of 
sustainable practices.
Our last EcoVadis assessment was carried out in May 
2023, with a resulting score of 68 out of 100 points 
and a silver medal recognising our good performance 
sector-wide. Our scores per category demonstrate 
solid practices in Ethics, Labor and Human Rights, 
while Environment and Sustainable Procurement were 
identified as pillars for continuous improvement. The 
following graphic features our historical results on 
this assessment.
Economic Performance & Endowment
GRI 3-3: FINANCIAL CAPITAL/RESOURCES
GRI 2-1
As a private organisation, INSEAD carries out school 
activities with revenues generated from tuition fees 
from degree and executive programmes, along with 
third-party research funding and donations made 
through the INSEAD Foundation and the Fondation 
Mondiale INSEAD.
Our business model allows us to act with financial 
agility, flexibility and resilience, attributes that 
helped us maintain a finally secure position during 
the pandemic. Revenues from Executive Education 
programmes rose steeply, as did expenses from return 
to business as usual, restarting suspended projects 
and long-term investment commitments.
The following table lists select financial indicators, 
based on combined audited accounts and the 
latest availability. All our financial reporting follows 
International Financial and Accounting Standards.
GRI 201-1
SDGs  8
  
9   
GRI 201-4
In France, INSEAD continued to benefit from state-
guaranteed loans, which will be fully repaid in year 
2024. The school also received payment for the 
research tax credits for years 2017 and 2018.
GRI 207-1
SDG  10
Activities at each of our campuses are developed 
under specific legal and tax conditions:
•	 Europe Campus – INSEAD is a non-profit association 
(“Association à but non lucratif - Loi 1901”), but 
subject to the French corporate tax of 25%.
•	 Asia Campus – INSEAD is a “company limited 
by guarantee” with a charity status, exempt from 
corporate tax.
•	 Middle East Campus – INSEAD is a “non-profit 
association”, exempt from corporate tax.
•	 San Francisco Hub for Business Innovation – 
INSEAD is a “non-profit corporation” under Section 
501(c) of the country’s Internal Revenue Code, 
exempt from Federal Income Tax.
Endowment
GRI 3-3: FINANCIAL CAPITAL/RESOURCES
With €372.2 million of assets under management as 
of August 2023, the INSEAD endowment supports the 
long-term operating and capital needs of the school. 
It is managed to maximise long-term return of the 
portfolio, subject to maintaining a reasonable level of 
risk. The endowment engages in sustainable investing 
based on belief supported by empirical evidence that 
extra-financial considerations, including ESG issues, 
affects long-term portfolio performance. Investment 
seeks to align with the school’s mission.
The endowment and the Sustainable Investing Sub-
committee works closely with INSEAD investment 
advisor, Partners Capital. They collaborate on ESG 
and sustainability, from understanding important 
developments and best practices in this space to 
discussing specific investments. The endowment 
integrates sustainability by incorporating data on 
financially material ESG issues, alongside traditional 
financial information, into investment analysis and 
Historical results of INSEAD EcoVadis assessment
INSEAD and EcoVadis, a longstanding relationship
Entrepreneurs Pierre-François Thaler MBA’99D and Frédéric Trinel founded EcoVadis in 2007, with INSEAD 
playing a catalysing role since its initial days. Professor Luk Van Wassenhove participated in the company’s 
scientific committee and alumni contributed to the assessment’s methodology, and co-authored with Andre 
Calmon and Anne Nai-tien Huang a case on this solution.
Since then, the school and EcoVadis maintain a close collaboration and presence at events like the Sustain 
Conference. In its 2023 edition, this conference convened over 450 participants in Paris and 3,000 online from 
82 countries. Discussions explored Scope 3 emission management, sustainability in value chains, business 
transformation, resilience management, ESG regulations, diversity and inclusion, and more.
INSEAD professor Atalay Atasu participated in 
the session Strategies for Supply Chain Risk and 
Resilience Management with practitioners Yvonne 
Zwick, Chairwoman of B.A.U.M; and Jan Geisler, 
VP Purchases Strategy at P&G; for a discussion 
moderated by Melina De Andrade Goncalves, 
EcoVadis Solution Consulting Manager. Professor 
Atasu is also part of the solution’s Scientific Advisory 
Board. Hoffmann Institute Executive Director, Katell 
Le Goulven, also participated at a side meeting of 
the Sustain Conference, as member of the EcoVadis 
Purpose Committee.
Financial Indicators and Distribution 
in thousands of Euros (€’000s)
Concept / Academic 
Year
AY 2019-20
AY 2020-21
AY 2021-22
Revenues 
235,566
217,727
284,474
Degree Programmes
54%
51%
46%
Executive Education
32%
32%
40%
Gifts / Revenue from 
endowment
9%
15%
10%
Other
5%
2%
3%
Expenditures
225,770
206,926
259,435
Personnel expenses
61%
64%
57%
Grants
3%
4%
3%
Operating expenses
36%
32%
39%
Concept
AY 2019-20
AY 2020-21
AY 2021-22
Total taxes paid to local 
tax authorities a/
3,767
3,006
2,337
Total interest paid to 
banks
607
523
635
Capital Expenditure
12,891
4,346
15,822
a/ Included in operating expenses.
Professor Atalay Atasu at the EcoVadis Sustain 2023 Conference

=== PAGE 28 ===
54
55
GRI 2-2, 2-3, 2-4
This Sustainability Report covers the impact of INSEAD 
activities on social, environmental and economic 
topics across all of our four locations for academic 
year 2021-22 (1 September 2021 to 31 August 2022) 
and academic year 2022-23 (1 September 2022 to 31 
August 2023). Unless specified, all data included in this 
document aligns with this timeframe.
INSEAD is making an effort to align the timeframe 
of its institutional reports, therefore the difference of 
reporting periods between this edition and the previous 
one. This edition is published in January 2024.
Information restated in this Sustainability Report 
from any previous edition is signalled with a note or 
footnote.
All content of this Report aligns with the following 
frameworks:
•	 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Universal Standards
•	 UN Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs)
•	 Sharing Information in Progress (SIP) of the UN 
Principles for Responsible Management Education 
(PRME)
•	 Principles of the United Nations Academic Impact 
(UNAI)
The reader can identify each section’s alignment with 
the GRI Standards, SDGs, PRME and UNAI principles 
and pillars by labels at the beginning of all relevant 
content. Such alignment is a pioneering practice 
in sustainability reporting by business schools and 
constitutes a signal of our concrete and future 
contributions toward positive social, environmental 
and economic impact.
Moreover, as part of an ongoing effort to improve our 
sustainability reporting, INSEAD joined the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Community, a network 
of organisations around the world connecting to 
share expertise on reporting. As one of the only 
business schools in the GRI Community, this offers an 
interesting platform to highlight INSEAD sustainability 
practices and knowledge to a broader audience.
About this Report
decision-making. INSEAD does not have an explicit 
exclusionary policy, but it aims to maintain an 
underweight to sensitive sectors, such as alcohol, 
tobacco and fossil fuels. We will divest exposures in 
the portfolio that are deemed ethically unjustifiable, 
irrespective of financial considerations, if reasonably 
practical.
With the support of Partners Capital, INSEAD invests 
mostly through third-party asset managers and 
encourages incorporation of best practice ESG 
integration, both through an initial due diligence 
process as well as ongoing monitoring. The 
endowment also aims to selectively deploy capital with 
managers who invest specifically in companies and 
sectors that have a positive impact on the environment 
and society while generating a competitive financial 
return.
Selected metrics from the dashboard the endowment 
maintains to measure and track progress on ESG and 
impact across the portfolio are given below (data as of 
August 2023).
Notes to ESG Metrics, Active Manager ESG Integration Scorecard, and Public 
Equity Portfolio Voting and Engagement
1. Important information on data availability and coverage: Due to the nature 
of Partners Capital’s investment strategy, the advisor is reliant on underlying 
exposure and position-level data from the third-party managers in which 
the portfolio is invested. This information is sometimes provided with 
different periodicity. As such, some of the data presented may not be fully 
updated or provide complete coverage. Whilst the advisor tries to minimise 
these instances where reasonably possible, they affect the accuracy and 
coverage of the data presented and some data may be estimated based on 
information obtained in prior periods.
2. Where responses to the Annual ESG Manager Integration Survey were not 
received, the manager has not been categorised. Passive products, legacy 
holdings and futures are not included in scope of the advisor’s survey. The 
exact classification criteria applied to each of the portfolio’s underlying funds 
may differ depending on the specific strategy employed by the manager. 
Non-exhaustive definitions of the categories are outlined below, further 
information can be provided on request for how the advisor classifies third-
party managers and/or strategies. 
a. Yet to Integrate: Managers with no formal / explicit ESG policy (at the 
firm or strategy level), or ESG policies are below the expected standard. Do 
not truly integrate ESG criteria into decision-making.
b. ESG Initiated: ESG criteria are integrated into their investment decision-
making. 
c. ESG Advanced: Highly integrated ESG resources and tools result in 
an ability to generate differentiated insights on underlying portfolio 
companies, create value to the point of delivering competitive advantage 
and expectation of better societal outcomes. The manager has active 
ownership through engagement with portfolio company management 
teams and reports to limited partners on ESG activities.
d. ESG Leader: Meet criteria required to be “ESG Advanced” with strong 
differentiating factors, e.g. multiple years of experience integrating ESG 
factors, or use of a proprietary framework for assessing ESG factors.
3. Data based on responses of the portfolio’s underlying asset managers to 
the annual ESG Survey.
Total Portfolio – Active Manager ESG Integration 
Scorecard (76% Total Portfolio Coverage) 1, 2, 3
Total Portfolio – Voting & Engagement with 
Underlying Company Management  
(76% Public Equity Portfolio Coverage) 1, 3
% of portfolio managers
2021
2023
Yet to Integrate
23%
14%
ESG Initiated
38%
43%
ESG Advanced
27%
31%
ESG Leader
12%
11%
% of equity managers
INSEAD Portfolio
Exercising voting rights (eg share proxies)
94%
Engaging with company management
59%

=== PAGE 29 ===
56
57
INSEAD Material Topics for Sustainability Reporting
Material Topics
Strategy Pillars
Knowledge
Learning
Engagement
Walk the Talk
Access to education and affordability
●
Career development and employment
●
Business development, entrepreneurship
●
Student support and life
●
Technology / virtual resources
●
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
●
●
●
●
Research
●
Innovation
●
●
●
Partnerships for impact in communities
●
Human capital/resources
●
Financial capital/resources
●
Sustainable Procurement
●
Environmental impact
●
●
Energy
●
Resource consumption and waste generation
●
Infrastructure
●
Material Topics
GRI 3-1, 3-2
Our most significant impacts on the economy, environment and people, as well as human rights, are compiled in 
the following set of material topics.
INSEAD is conscious that its evolving sustainability strategy will motivate an evaluation of the material topics 
and the process of defining them.
GRI 2-29
We identify stakeholders as those organisations or individuals with interests in our decisions and activities, 
whether at the local or schoolwide level. The list of stakeholders, introduced in the previous edition of this 
Report, remains unchanged.
GRI 2-5, 2-14, 2-17
The reporting process integrates diverse views from 
internal stakeholders across the school. To ensure 
alignment with INSEAD management and strategy, a 
final version of our Sustainability Report is reviewed 
by heads of relevant departments, Deans and 
senior leadership. External assurance has not been 
considered for our sustainability reporting practices. 
Data Collection, Content and Project 
Management
GRI 2-3
•	 Adrian Tamariz Flores – Sustainability Reporting 
Officer, Hoffmann Global Institute for Business and 
Society
•	 Kim Wilkinson – Associate Director, Hoffmann 
Global Institute for Business and Society
For questions and clarifications about this Report 
and its content, please contact Mr. Tamariz Flores at 
hgibs@insead.edu.
Contributors in Alphabetic Order
For the Hoffmann Global Institute for Business and 
Society:
•	 Ana De Sa – Events Manager
•	 Tabitha Dominey – Centre Coordinator
•	 Sonu Daryanani – Centre Coordinator  
(until October 2023)
•	 Maria Fedorova – Partnership Manager, 
Sustainability and Climate Initiatives Manager
•	 Cody Gildart – Editorial Direction and Support, 
Contractor
•	 Katell Le Goulven – Executive Director 
•	 Jean Lim – Administrative Assistant, Asia
•	 Tiffany Marc – Student Apprentice
•	 Vinika Rao – Asia Director
•	 Isabel Stark – Special Projects Officer
•	 Kim Wilkinson – Associate Director
For other INSEAD departments:
•	 Samia Ali – Director, Executive Degrees, Degree 
Programmes
•	 Sabine Amand-Tognotti – Senior Coordinator, PhD 
Programme
•	 Silke Bequet – EMC Programme Manager, Degree 
Programmes
•	 Agata Chojnacka – MIM Programme Manager, 
Degree Programmes
•	 Yazan Deeb – Senior Manager, Middle East, 
Operations & Campus Services
•	 Kris Donaldson – Senior Director, Corporate 
Partnerships, Executive Education
•	 Hind El Moumen – Director, Middle East Campus, 
Human Resources
•	 Michaela Felber – Director, Development, 
Advancement
•	 Zeynep Flouret – Head of Employer Engagement 
(Europe & Americas), Degree Programmes
•	 Ann Marie Julaton-Scurr – Senior Manager, 
Recruitment & Admissions, PhD Programme
•	 Isabelle Lanouguere – Risk, Control and Audit 
Manager, Dean’s Office
•	 Sandrine Leroy – HR Director, Global Employee 
Experience & Europe Campus, Human Resources
•	 Isabel Libault – Talent Development Officer, Human 
Resources
•	 Rachel Maguer – Global Director, Communications
•	 Nick Measures – Director of Research 
Communications, Dean’s Office
•	 Simon Melaine – Manager External Relations, Dean’s 
Office
•	 Uliana Muravyeva – Associate Director, Employee 
Experience, Engagement & Well-Being, Human 
Resources
•	 Connie Ng – EMFin Programme Manager, Degree 
Programmes
•	 Vernice Ong – Head of HR & Operations, Asia 
Campus, Human Resources
•	 Teresa Peiro – Associate Director, Admissions, 
Financial Aid & Scholarships, Degree Programmes
•	 Natalie Pellegrini Cosquer – Staff Nurse, Europe 
Campus, Human Resources
•	 Rosalind Pereira – Director, Donor Relations, 
Advancement
•	 Nathalie Perlinski – General Counsel, Dean’s Office
•	 Béatrice Pige – Chief Financial Officer, Finance
•	 Emilie Playt – Academic Manager, MBA Programme 
Management, Degree Programmes
•	 Olivier Pollard – Director Operations & Campus 
Services, Europe, Operations & Campus Services
•	 Nurul Rahman – Senior Manager, Operations, Asia, 
Operations & Campus Services
•	 Irina Schneider-Maunoury – Senior Associate 
Director, Admissions, Financial Aid & Scholarships, 
Degree Programmes
•	 Zeina Sleiman – Director, Alumni Relations, 
Advancement
•	 Lucie Tepla – Senior Affiliate Professor of Finance, 
Research
•	 Anne Claire Thevenin-Meneux – HR Director & Talent, 
Human Resources
•	 Aurelien Vepierre – Global Procurement Director, 
Procurement
•	 Rhoda Yap – Global Director, Career Development 
Centre, Degree Programmes
INSEAD Stakeholder Engagement
Stakeholders
Type of Engagement
Frequency of 
Engagement
Inform
Consult
Participate
Negotiate
Prospective Students
●
Ongoing
Students, Participants
●
●
Ongoing
Faculty
●
●
●
Ongoing
Employees
●
●
●
●
Ongoing
Suppliers
●
●
Ongoing
Alumni community
●
●
Ongoing
Private sector organizations
●
●
Ongoing
Donors and sponsors
●
●
●
Ongoing
Board of Directors
●
●
●
Every time they 
meet
Constituencies (Councils, Foundations)
●
●
●
Ongoing,  
Every meeting
Partner schools and universities
●
●
Ongoing
Partner local and global organizations
●
●
Ongoing
Local communities
●
●
When needed
Local and national governments
●
●
When needed

=== PAGE 30 ===
58
59
This Index provides an overview of this INSEAD Sustainability Report content, mainly elaborated under the GRI 
Standards.
To improve our practices on sustainability reporting and strategy, 
INSEAD joined the GRI Community in November 2022. 
Additionally, this Index includes reported disclosures for UN PRME and 
UNAI reporting frameworks.
Statement of use
INSEAD has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period from 
1 September 2021 to 31 August 2023
GRI 1 used
GRI 1: Foundation 2021
Applicable GRI Sector 
Standard
Sector standard not available for the Higher Education sector
Source
Disclosure
Location
SDG Linkage
Omission
Requirement(s) 
Omitted
Reason
Explanation
General disclosures
GRI 2: General 
Disclosures 2021
2-1 Organizational details
8, 53
 
2-2 Entities included in the 
organization’s sustainability reporting
55
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and 
contact point
55, 57
2-4 Restatements of information
55
2-5 External assurance
57
2-6 Activities, value chain and other 
business relationships
8
-
-
-
-
2-7 Employees
42
SDG 5, targets 5.1 
and 5.5, SDG 8, 
target 8.5, SDG 10, 
target10.3
-
-
-
2-8 Workers who are not employees
43
SDG 8, target 8.5
-
-
-
2-9 Governance structure and 
composition
12
SDG 16, target 16.7
-
-
-
2-10 Nomination and selection of the 
highest governance body
12
SDG 16, target 16.7
-
-
-
Content Index
2-11 Chair of the highest governance 
body
12
-
-
-
-
2-12 Role of the highest governance 
body in overseeing the management 
of impacts
15
SDG 16, target 16.7
-
-
-
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for 
managing impacts
15
-
-
-
-
2-14 Role of the highest governance 
body in sustainability reporting
57
-
-
-
-
2-15 Conflicts of interest
10
SDG 16, target 16.6
-
-
-
2-16 Communication of critical 
concerns
11
-
-
-
-
2-17 Collective knowledge of the 
highest governance body
57
-
-
-
-
2-18 Evaluation of the performance 
of the highest governance body
-
-
Entire 
disclosure
Confidentiality 
constraints
-
2-19 Remuneration policies
-
-
Entire 
disclosure
Confidentiality 
constraints
-
2-20 Process to determine 
remuneration
-
-
Entire 
disclosure
Confidentiality 
constraints
-
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio
-
-
Entire 
disclosure
Confidentiality 
constraints
-
2-22 Statement on sustainable 
development strategy
4
-
-
-
-
2-23 Policy commitments
10
-
-
-
-
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
10
-
-
-
-
2-25 Processes to remediate negative 
impacts
11
-
-
-
-
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice 
and raising concerns
11
SDG 16, target 16.3
-
-
-
2-27 Compliance with laws and 
regulations
-
-
Entire 
disclosure
Confidentiality 
constraints
-
2-28 Membership associations
37
-
-
-
-
2-29 Approach to stakeholder 
engagement
15, 56
-
-
-
-
2-30 Collective bargaining 
agreements
43, 44
SDG 8, target 8.8
-
-
-
UN PRME
Principle 1: Purpose, P101
4
Principle 1: Purpose, P102, P103
4, 14
Principle 2: Values, P201
14, 44, 47, 
48, 49
Principle 2: Values, P205
12
Material topics
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine material 
topics
56
3-2 List of material topics
56
Access to education and affordability
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
29
-
-
-
-
UNAI
Principles 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10
29
Career development and employment
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
30
-
-
-
-
GRI 203: Indirect 
Economic Impacts 
2016
203-2 Significant indirect economic 
impacts
30
SDG 8, target 8.5
-
-
-
UN PRME
Principle 5: Partnership, P505
30
UNAI
Principles 2, 4, 7, 9, 10
30
Principles 1, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9
34
Principles 3, 4, 9, 10
35

=== PAGE 31 ===
60
61
Business development, entrepreneurship
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
35
-
-
-
-
UNAI
Principles 3, 4, 9, 10
35
Student support and life
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
35
-
-
-
-
UN PRME
Principle 6: Dialogue, P601
35
Principle 6: Dialogue, P603
35
UNAI
Principles 1, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9
34
Technology / virtual resources
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
36
-
-
-
-
UNAI
Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10
17
Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9
24
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
44
-
-
-
-
GRI 405: Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 
and employees
44
SDG 5, targets 5.1 
and 5.5
SDG 8, target 8.5
-
-
-
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and 
remuneration of women to men
44
SDG 5, target 5.1
SDG 8, target 8.5
SDG 10, target 10.3
-
-
-
GRI 406: Non-
discrimination 
2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and 
corrective actions taken
11
SDG 5, target 5.1, 
SDG 8, target 8.8
-
-
-
UN PRME
Principle 2: Values, P204
29, 44
Principle 2: Values, P205
25, 44
UNAI
Principles 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10
29
Principles 4, 7, 9, 10
44
Research
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
17
-
-
-
-
UN PRME
Principle 4: Research, P401
17
SDG 9, target 9.5
Principle 4: Research, P403
17
UNAI
Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10
17
Innovation
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
24
-
-
-
-
UN PRME
Principle 3: Method, P301, P305
24
UNAI
Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9
24
Partnerships for impact in communities
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
37
-
-
-
GRI 413: Local 
Communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local 
community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development 
programs
-
-
-
Information 
unavailable/
incomplete
Impacts not 
measured 
by the 
organization
413-2 Operations with significant 
actual and potential negative impacts 
on local communities
-
-
-
Information 
unavailable/
incomplete
Impacts not 
measured 
by the 
organization
UN PRME
Principle 4: Research, P404
17
Principle 5: Partnership, P501
37
Principle 5: Partnership, P502
37
Principle 6: Dialogue, P604
15, 34
UNAI
Principles 3, 4, 9, 10
35
Human capital/resources
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
42
-
-
-
-
GRI 202: Market 
Presence 2016
202-2 Proportion of senior 
management hired from the local 
community
44
SDG 8, target 8.5
-
-
-
GRI 205: Anti-
corruption 2016
205-2 Communication and training 
about anti-corruption policies and 
procedures
11, 51
SDG 16, target 16.5
-
-
-
205-3 Confirmed incidents of 
corruption and actions taken
11
SDG 16, target 16.5
-
-
-
GRI 401: 
Employment 2016
401-1 New employee hires and 
employee turnover
43
SDG 5, target 5.1
SDG 8, targets 8.5 
and 8.6
SDG 10, target 10.3
-
-
-
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time 
employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employees
-
-
Entire 
disclosure
Confidentiality 
constraints
-
401-3 Parental leave
46
SDG 5, targets 5.1 
and 5.4
-
-
-
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and Safety 
2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety 
management system
45
SDG 8, target 8.8
-
-
-
403-2 Hazard identification, 
risk assessment, and incident 
investigation
45
SDG 8, target 8.8
-
-
-
403-4 Worker participation, 
consultation, and communication on 
occupational health and safety
45
SDG 8, target 8.8
-
-
-
403-5 Worker training on 
occupational health and safety
45
SDG 8, target 8.8
-
-
-
403-6 Promotion of worker health
45
SDG 3, targets 3.3, 
3.5, 3.7 and 3.8
-
-
-
403-7 Prevention and mitigation 
of occupational health and safety 
impacts directly linked by business 
relationships
45
SDG 8, target 8.8
-
-
-
403-8 Workers covered by an 
occupational health and safety 
management system
45
SDG 8, target 8.8
-
-
-
403-9 Work-related injuries
45
SDG 3, targets 3.6 
and 3.9
SDG 8, target 8.8
-
-
-
403-10 Work-related ill health
45
SDG 3, targets 3.3, 
3.4 and 3.9, SDG 8, 
target 8.8
-
Information 
unavailable/
incomplete
Pending 
processing
GRI 404: Training 
and Education 
2016
404-1 Average hours of training per 
year per employee
46
SDG 4, targets 4.3, 
4.4 and 4.5, 
SDG 5, target 5.1
SDG 8, targets 8.2 
and 8.5
SDG 10, target 10.3
-
-
-
404-2 Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and transition 
assistance programs
46
SDG 8, targets 8.2 
and 8.5
-
-
-
404-3 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular performance and 
career development reviews
46
SDG 5, target 5.1
SDG 8, target 8.5
SDG 10, target 10.3
-
-
-
UNAI
Principle 10
42
Principles 2, 3
46
Financial capital/resources
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
53
-
-
-
-
GRI 201: Economic 
Performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributed
53
SDG 8, target 8.1 
and 8.2, SDG 9, 
target 9.1
-
-
-
201-4 Financial assistance received 
from government
53
-
-
-
-
GRI 207: Tax 2019
207-1 Approach to tax
53
SDG 10, target 10.4
-
-
-
Sustainable Procurement
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
51
-
-
-
-

=== PAGE 32 ===
62
63
GRI 204: 
Procurement 
Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local 
suppliers
51
SDG 8, target 8.3
-
-
-
GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 2016
308-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using environmental criteria
51
-
-
-
-
308-2 Negative environmental 
impacts in the supply chain and 
actions taken
51
-
-
-
-
GRI 414: Supplier 
Social Assessment 
2016
414-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using social criteria
51
SDG 8, target 8.8
-
-
-
414-2 Negative social impacts in the 
supply chain and actions taken
51
SDG 8, target 8.8
-
-
-
UNAI
Principles 6, 9
51
Environmental impact
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
48
-
-
-
GRI 305: Emissions 
2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG 
emissions
48
SDG 12, target 12.4, 
SDG 13, target 13.1
-
-
-
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions
48
SDG 12, target 12.4
SDG 13, target 13.1
SDG 15, target 15.2
-
-
-
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 
emissions
48
SDG 12, target 12.4
SDG 13, target 13.1
SDG 15, target 15.2
-
-
-
305-4 GHG emissions intensity
-
-
Entire 
disclosure
Information 
unavailable/
incomplete
Pending 
definition of 
a unique unit 
for emission 
intensity 
across 
campuses
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
-
-
Entire 
disclosure
Information 
unavailable/
incomplete
Our GHG 
emissions 
measurement 
practices do 
not include 
yet the direct 
impact of 
reduction 
initiatives
UN PRME
Principle 2: Values, P201, P202, P203
48
UNAI
Principle 9
48
Energy
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
49
-
-
-
-
GRI 302: Energy 
2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the 
organization
49
SDG 7, targets 7.2 
and 7.3, SDG 8, 
target 8.4
SDG 12, target 12.2
-
-
-
302-4 Reduction of energy 
consumption
49
SDG 7, target 7.3, 
SDG 8, target 8.4
SDG 12, target 12.2
-
-
-
UN PRME
Principle 2: Values, P201
49
 
UNAI
Principle 9
49
Resource consumption and waste generation
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
49, 50
-
-
-
-
GRI 301: Materials 
2016
301-1 Materials used by weight or 
volume
-
-
Entire 
disclosure
Information 
unavailable/
incomplete
Measurement 
practices 
are being 
reevaluated
301-2 Recycled input materials used
-
-
Entire 
disclosure
Information 
unavailable/
incomplete
Measurement 
practices 
are being 
reevaluated
GRI 303: Water and 
Effluents 2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a 
shared resource
50
SDG 6, targets 6.3, 
6.4 and 6.a, SDG 12, 
target 12.4
-
-
-
303-3 Water withdrawal
-
-
Entire 
disclosure
Not applicable
We source 
from local 
suppliers in all 
our locations
303-4 Water discharge
50
SDG 6, target 6.3
-
-
-
303-5 Water consumption
50
SDG 6, target 6.4
-
-
-
GRI 306: Waste 
2020
306-1 Waste generation and 
significant waste-related impacts
50
SDG 8, target 8.4, 
SDG 12, targets 12.4 
and 12.5
-
-
-
306-2 Management of significant 
waste-related impacts
50
SDG 8, target 8.4, 
SDG 12, targets 12.4 
and 12.5
-
-
-
306-3 Waste generated
50
SDG 8, target 8.4, 
SDG 12, targets 12.4 
and 12.5
-
-
-
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal
50
SDG 8, target 8.4, 
SDG 12, targets 12.4 
and 12.5
-
-
-
306-5 Waste directed to disposal
50
SDG 8, target 8.4, 
SDG 12, targets 12.4 
and 12.5
-
-
-
UN PRME
Principle 2: Values, P201
49
UNAI
Principle 9
49
Infrastructure
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics
47
-
-
-
-
GRI 203: Indirect 
Economic Impacts 
2016
203-1 Infrastructure investments and 
services supported
47
SDG 9, targets 9.1 
and 9.4
-
-
-
203-2 Significant indirect economic 
impacts
47
SDG 8, targets 8.2 
and 8.5, SDG 9, 
targets 9.1 and 9.4
GRI 304: 
Biodiversity 2016
304-1 Operational sites owned, 
leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 
protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside protected 
areas
 47
SDG 6, target 6.6
-
-
-
UN PRME
Principle 2: Values, P201
47
 

=== PAGE 33 ===
64
INSEAD Europe Campus
Boulevard de Constance 
77305 Fontainebleau Cedex, France
T  +33 (0)1 60 72 40 00
INSEAD Asia Campus
1 Ayer Rajah Avenue 
Singapore 138676
T  +65 6799 5388 
INSEAD Middle East Campus
Al Khatem Tower, ADGM Square  
Al Maryah Island, P.O. Box 48049
Abu Dhabi, UAE
T  +971 2 651 5200
INSEAD San Francisco Hub 
for Business Innovation
224 Townsend Street, San Francisco,
CA, 94107 United States of America 
T  +1 888 546 7323
insead.edu
