Pages : 19

=== PAGE 1 ===
Sustainable 
development 
progress report
2022 − 2023

=== PAGE 2 ===
Where 
business 
meets 
creativity.
“In the past few decades, business schools have worked 
hard to introduce modules and activities in their curricula 
to develop the sustainability literacy of their graduates. But 
addressing the global sustainability challenges is about 
having a concrete and positive impact through appropriate 
actions. It is, above all, a question of purpose and relevance 
in decision making.
Which brings us back to the basics of management 
education: more than ever the “sustainable manager” 
exhibits and exerts an achieved balance between 
leadership, entrepreneurial, operational and human skills.
At Paris School of Business we are convinced that 
hybridization and open-mindedness are both the trigger and 
the cement of an accomplished manager, i.e. a conscious 
leader able to reconcile corporate performance and general 
interest, and to implement a “business for good” approach.
The education to sustainable leadership starts with personal 
engagement and exemplarity. At Paris School of Business, 
we acknowledge that creating an environment for students 
to take responsible options in the organization of their 
curriculum is part of our mission.
This is why we launched the voluntary STAR track (standing 
for: Sustainability Track for Advanced Responsibility) 
whereby students get credited whenever they take 
responsible options in student mobility, internships, and 
commitment in associative activities.
More than ever, we dedicate our academic excellence to 
training “managers for a better world”.”
— Philippe Jamet, PhD, HDR,  
CEO & Dean of Paris School of Business

=== PAGE 3 ===
4
5
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School  
of Business
Paris School of Business: a unique approach to business 
based on creativity, curiosity and agility. The school is the 
first triple-accredited Business School (AACSB, AMBA, 
EFMD Master) to offer international degree programs 
in partnership with Schools of Art, Design, Creation and 
Technology. A unique world of education and a rich student 
experience which offers inspiring pathways to develop  
and discover new ways of learning. 
Paris School of Business is fully recognized by the French 
Government and accredited under its Visa and Grade de 
Master systems. In addition, MSc programs are accredited 
by the French Federation of Grandes Écoles (Conférence 
des Grandes Écoles - CGE).
The school is governed by Galileo Global Education group 
and is part of the Conférence des Grandes Ecoles as well  
as being an associate member of Hesam Universités. 
Paris School of Business is in an exceptional 10,000 m2 
campus in the centre of Paris' new innovation hub, next  
to Station F. With nearly 200 staff members, including 
around a hundred permanent researchers, 4,000 students 
and 18,846+ alumni worldwide Paris School of Business 
has successfully integrated international quality assurance 
processes, policies and standards into its operations 
located on its Campus Cluster Olympiades in Paris  
(XIII district).
Key facts
A unique approach  
to business
+4 000
students
5
programs fully taughts  
in English
more than
100
nationalities
100
permanent  
faculty members

=== PAGE 4 ===
6
7
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Mission  
of the school
→ We are committed to inspiring,  
fostering, nurturing, welcoming  
and sharing the highest level of hybrid 
skills, mixing business and creativity,  
with our community of learners,  
mentors, researchers and partners.
→ We are committed to boldly embracing 
the future challenges of our world  
and see them as incredible opportunities 
for business innovation.
→ We are committed to acting  
as ambassadors of the Parisian lifestyle, 
ethos, culture and open-minded creativity.
→ We are committed to identifying  
and solving societal challenges  
and building an innovative future.
In a world where creativity and innovation have become the 
key to economic success, Science is increasingly turning 
to the Arts to invent new ways of accessing knowledge, and 
education specialists towards the Arts to disrupt traditional 
teaching models. Faced with unprecedented technological, 
societal, economic and political change, along with the need 
to take into account new ecological challenges, the role  
of creative disciplines has never been so crucial.
In this context, “Paris School of Business will position itself  
as an international Business School with a mission to 
educate Leaders who are creative, agile, open-minded 
and equipped with cognitive skills developed around new 
emotional (Me), collaborative (Me and others)  
and systemic (Me and my environment) intelligences”.

=== PAGE 5 ===
8
9
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Values 
the we hold
Paris School  
of Business, vision
Paris School  
of Business, values
As the world evolves towards a more volatile state, the business thinkers, doers, 
makers and shakers who succeed will be those who think and act creatively.
Pluralism
Responsability
Singularity
Inclusiveness
Agility
Business creativity is achieved by individuals who neither 
see nor put up barriers between disciplines. By allowing 
business expertise to combine with creative thinking, artistic 
inspiration, design acumen, theatrical performance, fashion 
sense or coding intelligence, we create the best possible 
conditions for the emergence of multidimensional business 
innovators, leaders, entrepreneurs and team players. 
The faculty, management team and administrative 
support staff value honesty, integrity, and dignity in their 
interactions with colleagues and students. They seek to act 
in compliance with the highest standards of professional 
ethics at all times. For these reasons, we adhere to the 
Principles for Responsible Management Education  
- PRME (United Nations Global Compact). 
Because uniformity is the enemy of creativity, we encourage 
each learner, mentor, researcher or member of staff  
to create their own path throughout their journey  
with Paris School of Business and beyond.
The nature of our values also explains the central role  
of creativity in our approach, both as a way of thinking  
and as a discipline for output: we aim to be creative  
and useful at the same time.
We value the potential for success, innovation or leadership 
in each individual, whatever their social background, 
preferences, beliefs or origins. We see business as a means 
of interacting with large and diverse communities, whether 
in our immediate neighbourhood or in the world at large. 
Diversity is a powerful source of creativity.
Our focus on developing a combination of hard and soft 
skills, along with the constant innovation and evolution  
of our pedagogical approach, are the pillars that will prepare 
learners at Paris School of Business to adapt successfully  
to real-world and real-time situations in volatile 
environments. 
Paris School  
of Business,  
committed to PMRE
In 2014, Paris School of Business signed PRME  
of United Nations Global Compact. 
As institutions of Higher Education involved in the 
development of current and future managers, we declare 
our willingness to progress in the implementation of PRME. 
We will report on progress to all our stakeholders and 
exchange effective practices related to six principles for 
responsible management for education. 
01	
Purpose
	
We will develop the capabilities of students  
to be future generators of sustainable value for 
business and society at large and to work for  
an inclusive and sustainable global economy 
02	
Values
	
We will incorporate into our academic activities and 
curricula the values of global social responsibility  
as portrayed in international initiatives such  
as the United Nations Global Compact. 
03	
Method
	
We will create educational frameworks, materials, 
processes and environments that enable effective 
learning experiences for responsible leadership.
04	
Research
	
We will engage in conceptual and empirical research 
that advances our understanding about the role, 
dynamics, and impact of corporations in the creation of 
sustainable social, environmental, and economic value
05	
Partnership
	
We will interact with managers of business 
corporations to extend our knowledge of their 
challenges in meeting social and environmental 
responsibilities and to explore jointly effective 
approaches to meeting these challenges. 
06	
Dialogue
	
We will facilitate and support dialog and debate 
among educators, students, business, government, 
consumers, media, civil society organizations  
and other interested groups and stakeholders  
on critical issues related to global social responsibility 
and sustainability. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
10
11
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
A CSR policy  
at the heart  
of the school
New aspirations are emerging, specifically among  
a new generation that has a clear preference for personal 
development, alongside human and societal objectives.
In a world that is increasingly digital and dynamic, Paris 
School of Business is going beyond the simple transfer  
of soft skills by putting the ability to learn and act at the heart 
of its pedagogical model thanks to an approach at 4 levels: 
01	
We are equipping our students with knowledge and 
understanding of the major transitions they will be 
faced with as future graduates, including the digital, 
ecological, and demographic transitions. This is done 
by integrating the civic dimension of future managers 
into educational activities in addition to the actions 
carried out by student associations.
02	
We are offering our students access to modules  
and courses in the areas of Art & Culture, Innovation  
& Technology, and the Political Sciences.
03	
Our students can attend monthly conferences  
on “International Futures”, with guest speakers who 
are philosophers, lawyers, journalists, sociologists, 
physicians, climate change activists and so on. 
Continuing the policy of social openness established 
by the school, as well as its commitments  
to combating all forms of discrimination.
04	
Mandatory conferences done by the Shift Project 
has taken place for all staff members of the school: 
academics as well as administrative staff. 
Last but not least, we have a 2000 square meter campus 
in the hearth of Paris which is ideal to create a responsible, 
supportive and respectful microcosm. 
To that extent we are incorporating an environmental 
management policy by taking account of environmental 
impacts in the school’s commodity purchasing and 
transport policies (energy, water, air, waste, and biodiversity). 
Moreover, Paris School of Business sponsors beehives in 
Sancerre to fight against their loss and support Beekeepers. 
The CSR commission: participatory body  
for the implementation of CSR policy
“Alone we go 
faster together 
we go further”
The school’s desire to structure and develop its CSR policy 
in association with the Paris School of Business' different 
stakeholders is embodied by the establishment of the CSR 
Committee which has three main missions:
→ Exchanging views on the School's CSR policy and the 
actions of the different stakeholders (students, teaching 
body, administration, and partners of the school)
→ Structuring and publicizing the different aspects of CSR 
policy and the actions of the associations involved
→ Improving the policy and actions by highlighting  
the strengths and areas to be improved
The Committee aims to bring together the regular 
participants in the school’s different actions  
at least twice a year, including: 
→ CSR Department
→ Students (involved in the association life)
→ Members of the teaching body
→ Members of the administration
→ Members of the Paris School  
of Business community: partners, etc.
In this way, the Commission mobilizes everyone who 
participates in CSR and Sustainable Development actions 
within the entire School community, by taking stock of the 
actions carried out and implementing new projects,  
and by brainstorming ways to improve the overall approach.

=== PAGE 7 ===
12
13
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Teaching, Training  
& dedicated courses
Sulitest
Paris School of Business has implemented a digital training 
programme that addresses the 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), i.e. the stakes, challenges, actors, and 
reference agreements, etc., involved in the ecological and 
solidarity transition. This training programme prepares 
students to take the Sulitest. The Sulitest consists of 
questions about sustainable development, the SDGs, and 
the challenges of the 21st century through the teaching and 
learning dimensions presented in the table 1 below. 
Resources
Learning outcomes
Format
Knowledge
Content transfered  
by teachers and experts
→ Knowledge about SDGs.
→ Identify solutions 
for today’s Societal 
challenges. 
Thinking
Critical reflection  
and analysis
→ Explore and understand 
the synergies and 
contradictions between 
the different topics 
of the sustainable 
transformation of our 
societies. Being able  
to find detailed sources 
and question them.
→ Explain the institutional 
framework of the 17 
SDGs and international 
agreements, and identify 
its limits. challenges. 
Commitment
Engage students to become 
actors of change
→ Become an actor of 
change for sustainable 
development issues.
Videos, articles, academic 
readings, webinars and 
exams (quizzes, individual 
and group  work). 
All these resources can 
be accessed on the Paris 
School of Business Learning 
Management System 
platform
Sulitest teaching & learning dimensions
The international questions are validated by the UN’s 
entities. The Sulitest is offered in only 30+ higher education 
institutions around the world. In 2018/2019, Paris School of 
Business' adopted the Sulitest for all Master 2 students. In 
2020/2021 Paris School of Business adopted the Sulitest for 
the Bachelor 3 students as well. 
In total, almost 800 Paris School of Business' students were 
required to take the test in 2019. 
In 2020, almost 950 students were required to take the test 
and in 2021 it is almost 1050 students concerned. 
The Sulitest is composed of 3 modules (International 
issues, SDGs, SDGs applied to France), each module being 
assessed out of a score of 100. Paris School of Business' 
students represent more than 50% of all students taking 
the Sulitest in France.
Pedagogical goals
Format
→ Knowledge: Answer general questions about SDGs 
sustainable development.
→ Knowledge: Identify solutions for today ’s  
challenges in the society.
→ Reflexivity: Explore and understand the synergies  
and contradictions between the different topics of the 
sustainable transformation of our societies. Being able  
to find detailed sources and question them.
→ Reflexivity: Explain the institutional framework of the 17 
SDGs and international agreements and identify its limits.
→ Commitment: Become an actor of change  
for sustainable development issues.
This program may take the form of videos, articles, academic 
readings, webinars and exams (quiz, individual and collective 
work). All those resources can be accessed through  
a dedicated platform (Learning Management System).

=== PAGE 8 ===
14
15
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Syllabus of the Program
From the sustainable development goals  
to ecological & solidarity transition
→ The history of sustainable development
→ Presentation of the 17 SDG topics
→ Companies' testimonies
→ Speakers: Pr. Jacques Igalens (Professor Toulouse 1 
Capitole), Aurélien Decamps (KEDGE Business School), 
Hélène Le Téno (Groupe SOS), Antoine Lemarchand 
(Nature & Découvertes).
Axe 1: Agriculture & nutrition
→ Agriculture and SDG: the new agricultural models
→ Comparison between developed and developing 
countries in terms of supply and food related challenges
→ Fair trade
→ Speakers: Marc Dufumier (Agro ParisTech),  
Rachel Kolbe Sehmoun (InVivo), Nicolas Bricas (CIRAD), 
Rémi Roux (Ethiquable).
Axe 2: Mobility & energy dimensioning and supplying 
vital services tu urban and rural areas
→ The mobility issue in developed countries
→ Access to all reliable, sustainable and modern energetic 
services at an affordable price
→ Speakers: Emeric Fortin (Ecole des Ponts ParisTech), 
Gilles Vermot Desroches (Schneider Electric), Arnaud 
Rouget (d.light), Christophe Sanchez (Kimso).
Axe 3: Education and work-providing fairer access  
to training and working conditions
→ Education for all, equal opportunities
→ Working conditions and legal obligations
→ Promote an intensive, shared and sustainable economic 
growth: full employment and a decent job for all
→ Speakers: Cécile Renouard (ESSEC Business School), 
Thibaut Guilluy (SocialCOBizz), Anita Kirpalani (Article 1).
Axe 4: Consumption and production - preserving  
our natural resources
→ The circular economy and the services economy
→ Planned obsolescence
→ Maintain the resources, set up new sustainable 
consumption and production patterns
→ Speakers: Béatrice Bellini (Université Paris Nanterre), 
Samuel Sauvage (Halte à l’Obsolescence Programmée), 
Mathieu Jeanne-Beylot (Mutum).
Financing of the ecological and social transition
The students who passed the Sulitest are awarded  
a certificate from Impact Campus. 
Impact Campus is a social business created to respond 
to the UN call by providing students and professionals the 
tools to manage the challenges faced by present and future 
generations through training programs and courses  
on social and ecological causes.
Dedicated courses 
The school has made the strategic decision to incorporate 
sustainable development and societal responsibility issues 
into its programs by including them in the framework of 
specific courses (electives), modules or in the form of 
corporate case studies and illustrations.
→ Support and training (via MOOCs) on social  
and humanitarian projects in partnership  
with the Solidarity Awards
This aim is divided into three levels:
→ Establishment of elective classes or dedicated courses  
in the different Master program specializations
→ Creation of specific chapters or modules  
in the different Master and Bachelor courses
→ Development of novel teaching activities  
in association with partner associations or firms  
at Master and Bachelor levels.
→ on the Master of International Business (Master 2 MIB) 
program since 2010 / 2011: Business Ethics, Corporate 
Social Responsibility, Social Entrepreneurship, Corporate 
Governance, Sustainability, Marketing & Sustainability.
→ On the Entrepreneurship Master: managing and creating 
a crowdfunding campaign for an existing society in 
partnership with Ulule.
→ On the Bachelor 3: exploring various forms of 
entrepreneurship such as Social Business, Circular 
Economy, Social Franchises
→ Every Master graduate student has to follow a 3-hours 
course dedicate to Climate Change
→ Within our 2nd year: 54 hours electives dedicated to the 
"Sustainability" are offered to our students.
→ Within our 3rd year: a 27-hours "Sustainability Impact 
measurement and recommendations" course is 
compulsory, as well as a 100-hours major project 
established on a real-life issue linked to supporting 
companies in their social and environmental transition. 
→ Moreover, each Master 2 specialization includes a 
compulsory 27-hour course dedicated to Sustainability, 
which is intrinsically linked to their specific training.
→ A 27-hours “Sustainability” elective is also offered as part 
of our 2nd year Bachelor program. 
→ Each Bachelor 3 specializations includes a compulsory 
27-hours course dedicated to Sustainability and 
intrinsically linked to their training.
Electives & courses on CRS  
and sustainable development
As an illustration, a series of courses on managerial issues 
specifically pertaining to sustainable development have 
been developed: 
This type of approach is being developed throughout all 
specializations and is gradually forming part of the common 
core program.
→ Along the 3 first years of their studies, students will 
follow the following courses: Courses in the Business 
Ethics of Sustainable Development and Communication 
Organizational & Ethics Behavior, Corporate Societal 
Responsibility
Modules and chapters on CSR and sustainable 
development
Chapters and modules have been developed  
in different courses:
→ A chapter on “Economic Policy and Green Growth” in the 
Economics for Managers course (Bachelor 1)
→ Modules on “Marketing and Sustainable Development” 
and “Corporate Societal Responsibility” in the marketing 
courses (Bachelor 1)
→ A chapter on CSR in the Organizational Behavior  
course (Bachelor 2)
→ A course on Ethics and Management of human resources
→ A course on Social Business (Bachelor 3)

=== PAGE 9 ===
16
17
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Label STAR: 
Sustainability Track for 
Advanced Responsibility
“Reinventing business practices, tools and models is crucial. Higher Education Institutions in Management 
have a fundamental role to play in preparing their students for their future professional lives as well as training 
enlightened citizens. In the current context, fulfilling this dual mission means fully integrating ecological issues 
into students' studies”. 
— Shift Project “ClimatSup Business: Educating the actors of tomorrow’s economy”
In order to meet this major Challenge, in 2023 Paris School of Business created 
and lauched the STAR label: Sustainability Track for Advanced Responsibility.
It enables students to commit to sustainable development and corporate social 
responsibility initiatives. The label is available to students on the Grande École 
and Bachelor programs and commits them both academically as well as through 
their experiences on and off campus. 
This label is characterized by a system of points obtained according to the 
successive commitments of students to actions carried out throughout their 
studies at different levels based on 4 pilars:
01	
Academic
	
During their studies students are taught a large 
number of courses dedicated to CSR and Sustainable 
Development. Some of these courses are compulsory 
and others are offered as electives.  
Students also take part in “long term” projects,  
during which they spend a semester working 
with companies that are developing sustainable 
development initiatives.
02	
Associative
	
On campus, for example, students can take part 
each year in fund-raising events with the GduCoeur 
association. They can also carry out a community 
service project with an approved legal entity focusing 
on civic engagement.
03	
International
	
During their international mobility, students are invited 
to continue their commitments by using transportation 
with a lower ecological impact to travel to their host 
country or by getting involved within associations  
at their university.
04	
Professional
	
During their apprenticeship and internship, students 
can get involved in any actions, projects or activities 
that help vulnerable groups, citizenship education, 
sustainable development, energy transition  
or international solidarity. 
At the end of each year, students are assessed on their 
annual STAR report in an oral presentation in front of a panel 
of judges. For those joining the Paris School of Business 
on a parallel admission basis, the number of points to be 
achieved will be calculated in proportion to the number of 
years remaining before the end of their course.
Students who accumulate the most points will be awarded 
by the STAR label, which will enable them to enhance their 
profile with recruiters in their job searches and throughout 
their careers. The three students with the best records, i.e. 
having carried out the most actions, will receive a prize of 
€1,000.

=== PAGE 10 ===
18
19
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Integration of the 
school's program 
in partnership with 
academic, associative  
& corporate sectors
Climate Collage 
Awareness-raising 
actions and events  
— Udiscover
Conferences
For the first year in 2021 Paris School of Business  
organized a Climate Collage. 
For three years now 100% of our Bachelor 3 students  
as well as Master 2 are doing one fresco. 
Dedicated for a young or enlightened audience, based on 
the work of the IPCC, the Climate Collage is the reference 
collaborative workshop for collectively understanding  
the complexity of climate change.
The Climate Collage association was created at the end  
of 2018 in order to raise awareness and understanding  
of climate change’s phenomena among as many people  
as possible around the world. 
01	
Reasoning
	
Participants discover the game’s cards;  
they think together to link the cards with each other 
and thus highlight the causes and consequences  
of climate change.
02	
Creativity
	
After identifying the causes, mechanisms  
and consequences, the participants trace the links  
and illustrate the Collage.
03	
Discussion
	
After this common diagnosis, time for discussion. 
The aim? To share feelings and reflect on collective 
solutions, to propel action.
	
→ 3.000 Students participated since April 2021
	
→ 10 staff members and teachers have been trained  
to animate the Climate Collage 
	
→ Climate collage is also offered independently  
to anyone who registers during the European week 
of ecology and solidarity.
	
→ The objective for the following Academic Year  
is to continue organizing a broader Climate Collage 
workshop and to offer it to a larger number  
of participants (Students and Board Members)
The Climate Collage is composed by 3 main parts:
UDiscover is an extra-academic pathway developed by Paris 
School of Business which aims to give an operational and 
practical dimension to the five-year course. In this way,  
it informs all the teaching.
Through this pathway lots of conferences are taking place 
in the school which enable students to raise awareness 
on new topics, to go deeper in the understanding of global 
challenges as well as meeting and discovering local, 
national and international initiatives.
The school is implementing a series of responsible 
conferences. Those series aim to offer students key  
actions perspectives on several topics such as fighting 
against gender inequalities, tend to better inclusive society, 
reflect on sustainable business actions in several  
areas like sport, IT, finance…

=== PAGE 11 ===
20
21
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Our students ambassador for the 
sustainable development with 
impact campus
“I am delighted to see that I have been able to create several projects  
with a positive impact on the environment and the community. By working  
with Impact Campus, we have been able to develop innovative solutions  
to address some of the challenges our society faces.
My commitment to ecology and citizenship has allowed me to raise awareness 
among more people about environmental issues and inspire them to take action 
to reduce their carbon footprint. We have also been able to collaborate with other 
organizations that share our vision and values.
I want to emphasize the importance of continuing my commitment  
to sustainability, innovation, and social impact.
We must continue to be creative in our approach and work together  
to find long-term sustainable solutions to environmental and social challenges.  
I have been thrilled to work for an organization with a noble purpose  
that contributes to a positive impact on society and the environment.”
— Aissatou Barry-Daizo,  
student ambassador 2022/2023
Since september 2017, we have a partnership with the 
association “Impact Campus”. Impact Campus supports 
schools and universities in the construction of hybrid 
courses or courses, allowing students to:
→ To develop a critical questioning, a reflexivity  
on the challenges of globalization and the ecological  
and solidarity transition;
→ To acquire professional skills and the reflexes  
of actors of change.
Through this partnership we have a student ambassador 
who for a year, has the mission to promote citizen 
engagement for ecology. 
This student ambassador is in a second year and belongs  
to the school humanitarian association: Gducoeur.
The aim is to make students want to engage in the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
The ambassador animates the campus and promotes 
student engagement in ecology, creates a bond  
with other students by being a direct interlocutor daily.  
Our ambassador is in civic service with the association, 
which allows a valorization of the implication  
and an official recognition. 
The student ambassador organizes regular and attractive 
actions around three major overall missions: 
→ Raise awareness among Paris School of Business 
students about civic engagement in the broadest 
sense on campus and on social networks (events, 
communication, etc.): conferences, clean walks, kahoot, 
quiz, leaflet, and Instagram communication… 
→  Promote Paris School of Business's actions  
on civic engagement 
→ Organize solidarity and eco-responsible actions: promote 
recycling, organize some charity events, organize some 
conferences…
The student also co-organizes with the CSR department two European Weeks: 
01	
European Week for Waste Reduction which 
encourages all Europeans and not only to carry  
out awareness-raising actions about sustainable 
resource and waste management during  
a single week in November.
02	
European Sustainable Development Week:  
a key event on campus for students looking  
at environmental and social issues and the 17 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

=== PAGE 12 ===
22
23
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Participation in different academic  
& professional networks
Paris School of Business is a member 
of the Conférence des Grandes 
Écoles (CGE). As such, members 
of the teaching body and the administration participate in 
different think tanks such as Gender Equality / Diversity 
and Sustainable Development. In each of these groups, 
the Head of the CSR Department regularly participates 
in working groups with the different designated CSR 
advisors on the joint creation of actions and strategies to be 
implemented on each of these topics within the CGE. This 
collective thinking has, for example, led to the establishment 
of the new “Green Plan” (Plan Vert) reference standard 
on sustainable development policies, a study of gender 
equality issues in schools and participation in the RIO+20 
Conference. 
In addition, Paris School of Business is an active participant 
in numerous actions and charters developed by the CGE 
to facilitate the national organization of the CSR policy of 
higher education institutions, especially in the issues of 
sustainable development, gender equality and diversity.
Associative activities
All of the School's associations are impacted  
by the sustainable development actions and have signed  
an environmental responsibility charter, in particular  
the “GduCoeur” association which involves  
more than 200 students each year and realizes more  
than 40 actions per year
Each One
Paris School of Business partnered with the company Each 
One for the second year to launch an integration program 
dedicated to refugees.
Each One is a training program hosted in prestigious 
schools and universities bringing together various 
stakeholders with a common mission: to reignite  
the professional aspirations of refugees. 
During their training, participants received French courses 
with the aim of taking the national DELF exam at the end 
of the program. Additionally, there were cultural discovery 
sessions organized by our students as the program 
implementation and execution are coordinated/organized 
in collaboration with a dedicated Paris School of Business 
students’ team. Employability and integration sessions  
also took place. 
Each One E-program for the year 2022/2023: 
→ 31 individuals were supported during the program
→ They were divided into two French language levels ranging 
from A1 to B1. 
→ 24 individuals took the DELF exam (12 passed the A2 level 
and 12 passed the B1 level)

=== PAGE 13 ===
24
25
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Overview of the 
CSR actions
Paris School of Business has impletemented a vast array of 
actions to address sustainable development issues. 
The table below presents a complementary synthesis of 
Paris School of Business' student, staff and faculty actions in 
support of the SDGs. 
UN SDG's
Paris School of Business actions
Metrics
UN SDG's
Paris School of Business actions
Metrics
01 No poverty 
& 10 Reduced inequalities
Within the “Gducoeur” student society, 
the Guria project was created to help 
the Guria NGO in India, which fights 
against forced prostitution and human 
sex traficking. Students go there 
each year to help and provide on-site 
assistance. 
With the “Gducoeur” student society, 
the M’BOUR project was created 6 
years ago in order to improve living 
conditions in an orphan located in 
Senegal.
Student street patrol.
GduCoeur, the humanitarian society, 
organized several patrols during the 
winter with teams.
They shared these moments to meet 
and discuss with homeless persons 
in Paris but also to deliver hygien and 
food products.
→ 35 students have been to Varanasi 
(India) and €22,000 has been raised 
since 2014. 
 
 
 
→ 12 students involved on this 
humanitarian project.
 
→ 80 students of the association 
Gducoeur involved in the distribution 
→ +500 meals prepared & distributed 
by the humanitarian association  
of Paris School of Business 
04 Quality Education
Within the Gducoeur student society, 
creation of the Nosy Komba project. 
In 2017, the media library project was 
launched. The idea was to create 
a place where children can come 
together to learn and have fun using 
different play materials
→ For 10 years student volunteers 
have been contributing to the 
improvement of education  
in the village of Antitourne on Nosy 
Komba Island in the northwest  
of Madagascar.
07 Affordable & clean energy
09 Industry innovation & infrastructure
& 12 Responsible consumption  
& production
Sustainability is one of the core criteria 
for the way Paris School of Business 
manages its infrastructure.  
The School's environmental  
policy revolves around: 
Site management: upgrading for 
compliance with low consumption 
standards and accessibility for 
handicapped people; 
Energy management: implementation 
of a responsible energy consumption 
monitoring policy (regarding video 
projectors, printers, light bulbs…); 
Waste management: implementation 
of an active sorting and recycling policy 
in collaboration with eco-companies 
(e.g. Lemontri);
Stakeholder awareness-raising: 
development of joint actions with 
associations located near the campus.
European Waste Week organisation 
(conferences, DIY activities, clothes 
trading…)
European Sustainable Development 
goal (workshops, debates, DIY, 
conferences)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
→ +1700kg of recycled trash collected
→ +180participants
→ +120 participants
05 Gender equality
03 Good health & well-being
Raising awarness on Mental Health 
issues through the Mental health day 
on campus.
“Pink October”:  
fight against breast cancer.  
→ Bake sales to raise funds. 
→ Movie projection on breast cancer: 
Miss you already. 
“Movember”: 
→ Support from Paris School of 
Business stakeholders (students, 
staff, teachers, Alumni) with a collage 
of Moustache pictures 
→ Fundraising for the cause
Facing the pandemic situation  
- creation of a psychological support 
unit (physical and online meeting) 
-Rooms on campus dedicated to 
isolated and vulnerable students
→ 14 posters designed by students  
on the theme
→ +30 testimonials gathered 
→ 150€ collected and transferred  
to a medical association that funds 
research into breast cancer  
(ROSE UP).  
→ 60 students attended the movie 
 
→ 90 pictures received 
→ 500€ raised 
 
 
→ Possibilities to book an appointment 
with a mental health professional
→ 3 rooms dedicated to welcome 
students in need
Regarding gender data of students, staff, professors and board members
→ Conferences on Gender Inequalities 
→ Participation to the CGE challenge: raising awarness  
on the inequalities through art. 
→ 3 Research Articles published on the topics 

=== PAGE 14 ===
26
27
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
UN SDG's
Paris School of Business actions
Metrics
UN SDG's
Paris School of Business actions
Metrics
08 Decent work & economic growth
Paris School of Business is actively 
collaborating in the implementation 
of online training programmes for 
the Sulitest, considered to be the 
TOEFL equivalent for sustainable 
development.
Paris School of Business participated, 
from 2017 to 2020, to an Erasmus+ 
project called “Success4all”. This 
platform meets the overall objectives 
of raising awareness and supporting 
entrepreneurship in Europe. It aims 
at providing an online educational 
content that is accessible to all, 
whatev-er their level of education.  
In addition, the platform is accessible 
to people with disabilities.
Paris School of Business coordinate, 
from 2017 to 2020, an Erasmus+ 
project called VIFRE dedicated 
to a virtual platform for refugee 
entrepreneurship.
→ See above. 
 
 
→ Paris School of Business was  
the coordinator of the project. 
There were 8 european consortium 
partners (France, Bulgaria, Letonia).  
→ It lasted 30 months  
(01/09/2016 - 28/02/2019)  
and the total grantt was 334,655€
→ Paris School of Business is the 
coordinator of the VIFRE project 
which lasts 36 months  
(01/09/2017 – 31/08/2020). 
→ There are 7 european consortium 
members (Germany, France, Ireland). 
The total grant is 405,461€.
14 Life below water
& 15 Life on land
Impact Campus: Planet Day
 Workshops and events to raise 
awareness on environmental issues 
during a day: virtual reality, kahoot  
quiz, tasting vegan food, tasting 
vegetarian food
Partnership with the “League for 
animal protection”: 
MBM Luxury Master’s students 
organized a conference on June 5  
at Shangri-La Hotel on the theme  
of Sustainable Development through:
→ In 2018, the safeguarding  
of the bees.
→ in 2019, the return of birds to urban 
areas. 
→ in 2020/2021 the cause is still 
fighting against biodiversity loss, but 
it is postponed.
→ In 2022/2023 the cause is once 
again linked to biodiversity 
preservation
Conference at Shangri-La Hotel (Paris)
→ About 500 students all day long 
→ 34 students involved 
Money collected:  
-2018: €2,500; 
-2019: €2,000. 
-2022: €1.500
→ 100 people
11 Sustainable cities & communities
& 13 Climate action
Impact Campus: Clean Walks in Paris
Development of partnerships with 
waste management and recovery 
service providers to improve the 
School's environmental policy.
In addition, since September 2017, 
Paris School of Business has a student 
ambassador who for a year promotes 
citizen engagement in favour  
of ecology.
→ Over 50 students volunteered 
to pick up waste from the 13th 
arrondissement in Paris in 2019
→ In 2020, during the several 
lockdowns students participated  
to the challenge #cleanmystreet
→ Data collection in progress
13 Climate action
Paris School of Business is 
coordinating an Erasmus + project 
from 2020 to 2023 called BE YOU: 
Building an Entrepreneurial Mindset in 
Youth for a sustainable society. 
The goal of this project is to 
design, develop and test innovative 
educational tools for young people 
(13 - 25 years old) to raise awareness 
about climate change and social 
entrepreneurship. 
→ Needs Analysis have been done and 
2 workshops are currently tested.
→ 5 partners in Italy, France & Spain
→ Total Grantt: 229 748

=== PAGE 15 ===
28
29
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
UN SDG's
Paris School of Business actions
Metrics
16 Peace, justice & strong institutions 
& 17 Partnerships for the goals
Paris School of Business is a strategic 
partner of Trophées solidaires 
(Solidarity Awards), a national student 
CSR competition, which encourages 
our faculty members and support staff 
to engage in ongoing discussions 
related to important societal issues.
Annual organization of the  
“National Sitting against Revisionism” 
conference organized by our faculty. 
The conference has been organized  
by Paris School of Business scholar 
since 2010 and constitutes a meeting 
point for intellectuals, researchers  
and journalists working on this 
important subject. 
Other Conferences & events against 
discrimination are regularly organized 
(e.g. with SOS Racism).
Paris School of Business was finalist 
with 4 other Grandes Ecoles in 
France out of +50 candidates for 
the “Solidarity Awards” organized by 
Campus Responsible.
Paris School of Business presented 
its atypical approach with its student 
ambassador in civic service, to the 
Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity 
Transition on 19 February 2020.
The jury was made up of 6 sustainable 
development experts and the audience 
was made up of around 120 people 
from higher education and the SD 
world.
This event is unique in Europe and 
is a major event in the fight against 
genocides. The scope of the 
conference goes far beyond the French 
borders and concerns, for example, the 
genocide of the Tutsi in Rwanda.
15 Life on land
Biodiversity protection  
on the campus 
→ Creating an ecosystem within  
the Paris Innovation Cluster Campus
→ Create a responsible, supportive  
and respectful microcosm
→ Raise awareness of the issues  
of our century 
→ Sponsoring of Bee hives in Sancerre: 
https://www.beopolis.org/ruches
→ Creation of a vegetable garden 
→ Plant some flowers to enable insects 
to grow peacefully 
→ Sponsor of 2 bee hives 
Paris School of Business actions to adress Sustainable Development Goals

=== PAGE 16 ===
30
31
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
CHAIRS,  
Center of Research  
& Erasmus + Project
Focus on the BE YOU 
Erasmus + project
https://www.youthid.net/en/be-you-en/
Building Entrepreneurial Mindset in Youth for a Sustainable 
Society (BE YOU) is a Strategic Partnership in the youth field 
(October 2020/February 2023). The project brings together 
5 partners from France and Italy and a wide network of 
associated partners (in Italy France and Spain) to raise 
awareness young people's awareness of climate change 
issues and empower them to become factors of change in 
their local communities.
To this end, the project developed, piloted and disseminated three 
innovative workshops for young people
01	
Ecological Renaissance
	
Organized as a role play (including political actors, 
local community members, etc.) the workshop offers a 
positive story of what communities could look like after 
a successful implementation of sustainability policies 
(which includes carbon neutrality in 2050, social 
justice, etc.).
02	
2 Tonnes
	
Based on a carbon accounting tool that allows players 
to visualize their own carbon footprint and simulate 
improvements, the workshop owes its name to the 
fact that each citizen must retain their carbon balance 
under 2 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year in order to 
achieve global carbon neutrality by 2050, limit global 
warming to +1.5°C thus preventing a climate disaster.
03	
Social Entrepreneurship
	
A workshop that connects sustainable development 
and economic activity; it consist of a 3hours 
game session devoted to the discovery of social 
entrepreneurship through concrete entrepreneurs 
examples.
The workshops are based on a comprehensive pedagogical 
methodology for the main target group of the project - young 
people with fewer opportunities, mainly socio-economic 
obstacles, who are often left out of the conversation on 
sustainability. To ensure effective learning and behavioral 
change, the methodology is underpinned by the four 
pillars of learning (reasoning, imagination, emotion, and 
structure), effective language, storytelling, gamification, and 
participatory education.
A Training for youth workers has been designed and piloted 
to build the capacities of youth workers and teachers to reap 
the full potential of these new youth workshops.
The reached about 210 young people and 150 youth workers 
and teachers to empower young people to become active 
members of a more sustainable society.

=== PAGE 17 ===
32
33
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Chairs
The school hosts two research chairs, “New Practices for 
Innovation and Creativity” and “Living Health”, as well as an 
“Energy and Climate Change” research center.
The Energy Risk Management Chair
Founded in 2017, the Energy Economics and Ecological 
Transition chair specializes in macroeconomic issues 
related to energy supplies.
The chair is composed of a dozen researchers, two PhD 
students and an engineer, specialized in geopolitics 
and economics. They annually publish scientific articles 
in international journals, books for public and organize 
international conferences.  The chair is dedicated to 
supporting academic research, conferences, and skills from 
various disciplines.
This Chair takes particular interest in the major energy 
transition issues facing the planet through its three 
main focuses: Geopolitics, Macroeconomics & Finance, 
and Technological & Environmental Risks. Sustainable 
development issues are particularly apparent in certain 
research topics such as: shale gas in France, the energy 
revolution in China, innovation in solar energy in India, 
the criticality of rare energy-producing minerals, carbon 
finance, the analysis of market regulations and competitive 
dynamics.
Not only is the development of renewable energies 
now necessary, it will also, and above all, help to reduce 
the number of potential geopolitical conflicts relating 
to the predicted decline in reserves of raw materials. 
Based on these different research activities, the Chair 
develops courses on the risks and threats relating to the 
production, extraction and supply of the most sensitive raw 
commodities, starting with the exploitation of energy raw 
materials. With this in mind, particular attention is paid to the 
oil-rich Middle East. The environmental dimension is also 
covered with the promotion of renewable energy sources 
and the adoption of standards designed to reduce energy 
intensities.
Focus
The Chair Living Health
The improvement of the healthcare system for a sustainable 
health is a major concern. The related discourses in media 
mainly focus on illnesses and their manifestations, their 
treatment and the scientific and medical advances, and their 
economic consequences for health facilities, healthcare 
professionals and the authorities. The human dimension 
related to the patient support and care remains secondary 
and under-exploited. However, the way patients experience 
the multiple interactions with healthcare professionals along 
the healthcare pathway may have consequences on their 
health, well-being and quality of life. And when they are really 
optimized and efficient, these interactions can stand for 
real opportunities for value creation for the different actors, 
opportunities for growth and resilience.
In this context, the chair Living Health - Care, Cure, Connect 
– of Paris School of Business. Paris School of Business 
focuses on the understanding and the optimization of the 
patient experience, by adopting a global approach of the 
experience, that is organized around three key factors  
of success: the human dimension – Care, the professional 
expertise – Cure, and the optimal use of data  
Center of Research for Energy  
and Climate Change (CRECC)
The Center of Research for Energy and Climate Change 
(CRECC) is a leading research center dedicated to 
advancing knowledge and understanding of issues related 
to energy and climate change. Its mission is to conduct 
cutting-edge research that can inform public policy, help 
address urgent environmental challenges, and promote 
sustainable development both locally and globally.
At the CRECC, researchers from diverse disciplines 
work together to explore a wide range of topics related 
to energy and climate change, including renewable 
energy, energy efficiency, carbon capture and storage, 
sustainable transportation, and climate policy. By combining 
theoretical and empirical research methods, the center 
aims to generate insights and solutions that can be put into 
action by governments, industry leaders, and civil society 
organizations.
In addition to conducting research, the CRECC also 
engages in outreach and education activities to promote 
public awareness and understanding of energy and climate 
change issues. Through partnerships with government 
agencies, businesses, and NGOs, the center seeks to foster 
collaboration and knowledge-sharing among stakeholders, 
with the goal of building a more sustainable and resilient 
future for all.
Overall, the CRECC's mission is to leverage the power  
of research to address some of the most pressing 
challenges of our time, and to help build a more  
sustainable and equitable world for future generations.
Event: Energy and Sustainability Day with a roundtable on 
Finance and Energy Efficiency, May 24, 2023. 
Jointly organized by CRECC Research Center, Paris School 
of Business, and Université Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne. 
This event hosted Prof.Lutz Kilian, Federal Reserve Bank  
of Dallas, USA and Prof. Ines Chaieb, University of Geneva  
& Swiss Finance Institute, Switzerland. 
→ Price transmission on Energy Markets
→ Geopolitical risks related to Energy Trade
→ Energy issues in Emerging Countries
→ Economic impacts of Energy Transition in Europe

=== PAGE 18 ===
34
Paris School of Business	
Sustainable development progress report
Editorial 
Salomé Picard 
Heger Gabteni
 
Artistic Direction 
Maëlle Thomas
Typeface 
Suisse 
by Ian Party 
(Swiss Typefaces)
Edition 2023  
© Paris School of Business 
www.psbedu.paris
Notes

=== PAGE 19 ===
Paris School of Business 
59 rue Nationale 
75013 — Paris 
+33 (0)1 84 60 27 04
www.psbedu.paris
State-recognized,  
private institution  
of technical higher 
education.  
PSB PGE school,  
Member of the ’ESGCV.
SAS with capital  
of 13 267 469 euros, 
Headquarters:  
35 avenue Philippe Auguste  
75011 — Paris,  
752 535 476 RCS Paris.
Conférence 
des Grandes Écoles
Accreditations 
AMBA — EFMD — AACSB — BGA
Sustainable 
development 
progress report
2022 — 2023
