
----- PAGE 1 -----

1 Sustainability Report
Sustainability 
Report 2022 
ESCP Berlin Campus

----- PAGE 2 -----

Sustainability 
Report 2022 
ESCP Berlin Campus

----- PAGE 3 -----



----- PAGE 4 -----

5
Sustainability Report
Table of content
Foreword        7
P
rinciple 1 & 2: Purpose & Values
 9
Sustainabilit
y Advisory Board: Sustainability and 
business world
 10
Gr
een Office: Bringing all stakeholders on Board
 10
 
Cross-campus Sustainability Governance
 10
P
rinciple 3: Method
 11
MSc
. Sustainability Entrepreneurship and Innovation
 12
MSc
. International Sustainability Management
 13
Mast
er in Management: Sustainability Revision 
of the MIM programme 
 14
Ba
chelor in Management on Berlin campus: Conscious 
Leadership and Impact Entrepreneurship
 15
P
rinciple 4: Research
 17
Rese
arch Infrastructure
 17
Publications
 18
C
onference Presentations
 19
Book
s & Chapters
 19
PhD Rese
arch Projects
 2
0
Principle 5 & 6: Partnership & Dialogue
 21
Str
ategy for stakeholder engagement and partnerships
 21
P
rogramme-specific partnerships for sustainability 
 22
Rese
arch-related partnerships for sustainability 
 2
4
Common Good 
 25
A
ddendum Principle: Organisational Sustainability
 27
Divin
g Into Diversity & Equal Opportunity
 2
7
Ethics Compliance
 29
Gr
een Spaces & Biodiversity on Campus
 29
He
ating and Electricity
 30
Ber
lin’s Carbon Footprint in terms of Mobility
 31
Qualit
y Control of Sustainability Efforts on Campus
 3
3
All Things Waste
 3
3

----- PAGE 5 -----



----- PAGE 6 -----

7
Sustainability Report Foreword
As the Dean of the ESCP Berlin Campus, it is my honour and duty to not only ensure 
continuity of the major initiatives developed under the leadership of my predecessors but to provide full support to all the stakeholders involved so that ESCP’s strategic intent turns in tangible results. We have done so much yet so little when we see the data on climate change and witness the pressing challenges around energy, food, water, and human resources. At ESCP Berlin Campus we have proven that we are committed and will do our utmost to do more in the coming years. 
I would like to warmly thank and congratulate all engaged members of the Green 
Office Berlin for producing our first report on sustainability: Alina Iakovleva, Helena Fierz, Luca Vergari, Sophie-Louise Elsässer, Sophie Boddorff, Léo Police, and Luisa Guarino. I am also immensely grateful to our Faculty and staff members for their time and expertise. 
Professor Véronique Tran  
Rector of ESCP Berlin Campus
Our European societies and economies are faced with unprecedented challenges, related to the scarcity of resources, climate change and biodiversity collapse, which are likely to exacerbate international tensions and global value chains. In this context, one of our central paradigms as a business school is to rethink economic and management paradigms, which were largely designed under the hypothesis of unlimited and free access to natural resources. 
We are now very much focused on our students’ impact on the world and we believe 
in instilling a sustainability mindset right from their very first experience within our walls. As future leaders, students need to acquire sustainability literacy on topics such as climate change, resource scarcity, and biodiversity loss. As soon as 2022, 100% of our students will be trained on these topics. 
This endeavor can be traced back all the way to 1992, which – besides the Rio 
Earth Summit – was also the year of our first course on sustainability, “Ecology and Economy”. Since then, we have been increasingly integrating sustainability into our institution’s education and research, processes, and relationships, aiming to blend managerial and economics topics with sustainability, ethics and social impact. 
Being a multi-campus institution, this integration requires the collaboration of all 
the campuses of ESCP, and as Associate Dean for Sustainability, I am proud to see our ambition being carried locally and adapted to fit campuses’ specificities. For this purpose, campus reports are an important tool to give an overview of what has been done so far, promote innovation and identify where to focus our efforts. It also helps promote the exchange of knowledge and good practices among all our campuses.
The new strategy, published in 2022, counts four pillars, one of which is sustainability 
indicating the school’s renewed commitment. This report is a practical introduction to what is to become our school-wide report, combining our global ambition and local projects. 
Hope you have an enjoyable read!
Professor Aurélien Acquier  
Associate Dean for Sustainability

----- PAGE 7 -----



----- PAGE 8 -----

9 Sustainability Report
Principle 1 & 2: 
Purpose & Values 
ESCP Business School’s vision is that sustainability should 
be the cornerstone on which a business is built. Therefore, as a higher education institution offering a Bachelor, Master and Executive Education programmes, the school considers it as its responsibility to be at the forefront of sustainable teaching and research practices. The overarching goal being to inspire future leaders to be change agents who will solve 
sustainability issues in the world.
ESCP Berlin campus is working to create the necessary 
conditions to achieve this goal and therefore has anchored sustainability in its local governance structure. We foster a collaborative and transparent environment, thus 
providing all stakeholders of the school with opportunities to participate in the ongoing sustainable transformation of the campus. Principle 1 | Purpose: We will develop the capabilities of students to be future generators of 
sustainable value for business and society at large and to work for an inclusive and sustainable global economy.
Principle 2 | Values: We will incorporate into our academic activities, curricula and organisational 
practices the values of global social responsibility as portrayed in international initiatives such as 
the United Nations Global Compact.
One of our fi  rst steps to develop a sustainability strategy was formulating ESCP Berlin campus’ vision and mission statement. In December 2019, the Green Offi  ce conducted a workshop with stakeholders repre-sent ing professors, students and administrative staff to gather ideas on the school’s sustainable transition. Proposed suggestions were afterwards approved by the Sustainability Advisory Board and became the basis of ESCP Berlin campus’ sustainable vision, mission and values: 
Until now ESCP Berlin campus has established two 
bodies within its local government structure that tackle the question of sustainability challenges from different angles. 
Sustainability vision
ESCP Berlin campus will be a leader in empowering future decision-makers to fl  ourish for the environment and society in an authentic and integrative way.
Sustainability values
Authenticity, Community, Creativity, Knowledge, Open-ness, Responsibility.Sustainability mission
(a) Empower environmentally, socially, and economical-
ly conscious members of ESCP and future decision-makers by offering education and learning experiences that build on principles of responsible and sustainable business.
(b) Attract and foster research on responsible and 
sustainable business and motivate new areas of research.
(c) Continuously reduce emissions and usage of natural 
resources on the operational level and motivate socially responsible, inclusive and diversity-supporting organisational development.
(d) Share our knowledge and raise awareness of 
responsible and sustainable business within society to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals.

----- PAGE 9 -----

This board was founded in October 2017 at ESCP Berlin 
campus to share projects and activities done in the field of sustainability management with experts who provide first-hand experiences. The Sustainability Advisory Board meets twice a year to support ESCP Berlin campus in defining and achieving milestones on the path of sustainable organisa
-tional de velopment. Members of our Board are practitioners 
striving to successfully transform and integrate sustainable business practices in large global organizations such as: Procter & Gamble, Coca-Cola, Accenture Strategy, Allianz as well as two of the biggest NGOs worldwide and in Germany: WWF and Welthungerhilfe.Sustainability Advisory Board: Sustainability and business world
Green Office: Bringing all stakeholders on Board
In an effort to further promote sustainability, ESCP Berlin  
campus has joined the Green Office Movement in September 2019. By launching its own Green Office, the school provides a platform for sustainability projects that empowers students and staff to integrate sustainability in the curriculum, operations, community and governance. The Green Office at ESCP Berlin campus is driven by a close cooperation between the school’s administration and 
Cross-campus Sustainability Governance 
Ideas to go beyond:
(1) Cr eate a long-term strategy to embed sustainability in all fields 
of action at ESCP Berlin campus.
(2)
 F
ormulate long-term and short-term SMART goals for each 
field of action and continuously monitor progress. 
(3)
 F
oster internal and external stakeholder engagement in the 
topic of sustainability.
(4)
 F
urther anchor UN Principles of Responsible Management 
Education in our teaching practices and daily operations. 
Transparent communication is vital for the university with  
five campuses across Europe, especially when it comes to coordinating and aligning sustainability efforts around a common goal. On the federal level, the process of sustain
-
able tr
ansition of ESCP is led by our Associate Dean for 
Sustainability and a Sustainability Manager that act as focal points for the school and campus representatives. Since 2020 every campus has nominated a local sustainability representative and established regular meetings to discuss federal and local projects. The school is also striving to better  
integrate students in the school’s sustainability processes, for example by organizing monthly meetings with represen
-
tativ
es of some of its sustainability student societies from all 
campuses and developing common pro
 jec
ts and events. students which allows us to make a great use of synergies. Diversity of backgrounds and knowledge that Green Office members bring in helps tackle existing challenges from various perspectives and creates necessary transparency to projects. Currently the Green Office consists of one adminis
-
tr
ative staff member who also acts as a local Sustainability 
Coordinator as well as two students from Specialised Master Programs.

----- PAGE 10 -----

Principle 3:  
Method 
ESCP Business School aims to provide management edu -
cation of th
e highest quality to its students. The signature 
Bachelor and Master programmes in Management are 
complemented by an Executive Education programme and various specialised Master programmes such as ‘Strategy and Digital Business’, ‘International Sales Management’ and ‘International Sustainability Management’.
In the last years, efforts have been made to review existing  
courses as well as to integrate new courses and pro
-
gr
ammes in order to establish ethics, responsibility and 
sustainability as core principles of ESCPs management 
edu
 cation. Ne
w electives on sustainability as well as two 
specialised master programmes on sustainability were introduced, and the Master in Management was comple -
m
ented by a sustainability core course, specializations and 
electives on sustainability.
Currently, ESCP is in the process of reviewing and updating 
sustainability-related core courses of the Bachelor in Man
-
a
gement, as well as integrating sustainability core courses 
in the executive education programmes to reach the goal of implementing ESCP’s recently defined sustainable vision into all of its educational offerings.
The following section of the report highlights ESCP Berlin 
campus’ programmes, specialisations and courses with a specific focus on sustainability.Principle 3 | Method: We will create educational frameworks, materials, processes and 
environments that enable effective learning experiences for responsible leadership.
11 Sustainability Report

----- PAGE 11 -----

MSc. Sustainability Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Goal:
Introduced in 2019 – 2020, the MSc in Sustainability En
-
tr
epreneurship and Innovation aims to enable its students 
to apply the tools of business to solving the world’s most 
urgent social and environmental problems. Whether students set out to integrate sustainability practices into a corporation, start their own purpose-driven companies or anything in between, this MSc empowers them to drive change within teams, firms and industries.
Course overview: The programme is based in Berlin and Paris and builds on 
the latest thinking on sustainable business, entrepreneur
-
ship an
d innovation. The interdisciplinary programme is 
open to students from all backgrounds and teaches eco -
n
omic basics, advanced specialised courses on sustainability 
as well as an additional foreign language course. The pro
 gr
amme includes courses on leadership, teams and 
collaboration, eco-venturing and entrepreneurial finance, as well as sustainability accounting, marketing and strategic management.
Learning objective:Students will gain practical understanding of sustainable 
business concepts and methods such as values-based inno
-
v
ation management and business modelling, as well as 
direct experience on the field on an internship, a consulting engagement and a business development project. Teaching Methods:
The variety of applied teaching methods is one of the pro
-
gr
amme’s strengths. Courses are taught by full-time ESCP 
faculty and successful professionals; it combines traditional 
lectures, group works, workshops and a one-year business development project. Multiple partner organisations enable the programme to also offer a hackathon, a social media challenge, a serious online game as well as a company consultancy project to its students. 
Various guest speakers from different industries and pro
-
f
essional domains share insights with the students over the 
course of the teaching period.
Main SDGs tackled in MSEI

----- PAGE 12 -----

13 Sustainability ReportMSc. International Sustainability Management
Goals:
Climate change is having a visible impact on the planet and 
the government and society is reacting to it. Companies are asked to report on their environmental and social impacts, and start-ups are increasingly focused on developing sus-tainable solutions. The Masters in International Sustainability Management aims to equip students with the knowledge and skills necessary to manage the change towards a more sustainable business world.
Course overview: The Masters in International Sustainability Management is 
based in Berlin and Paris. The courses at the Berlin campus aim to teach students the basics of environmental and sus-tainability management, science and economics, as well as research and complexity. More specifi  cally, students take courses such as Integrated Reporting, Business Ethics and CSR, Environmental and Resource Economics as well as Introduction to Sustainability Research. Electives on topics such as NGO Management, Sustainable Finance, and Impact Investing in Emerging Countries complement the programme.
Learning objectives:Students will learn about the different aspects of environ-
mental and sustainability management such as Business Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility, Eco-Marketing and Integrated ‘triple-bottom-line’ Reporting. At the same time, knowledge on Climatology and Resource Economics aids students to better understand the fragility of our planet for better managerial decision-making.
Teaching methods:
Similar to the MSc. in Sustainability Entrepreneurship 
and Innovation, this program is largely taught by full-time ESCP faculty, experts, and successful alumni work-ing within the realm of sustainability man agement / development. This program also combines theoretical frameworks with practical projects and group works with noteworthy company partnerships (i.e. 3 signifi  cant company consulting projects and a 3-month required internship). Courses in this project offer students a vari-ety of networking opportunities with professionals in the fi  eld invited as guest speakers or lecturers and oppor-tunities to partake in various networking events related to the subjects studied throughout the duration of the program (i.e. participation in the annual Green Supply Chain Day).
Main SDGs tackled in SustM

----- PAGE 13 -----

Master in Management: Sustainability Revision of the MIM programme
Goal of the sustainability revision:
For several years, the Master in Management has been re -
vised t
o provide students with an understanding of sus
 tain
-
abilit
y challenges in business. New courses and speciali
-
sations w
ere integrated on how businesses contribute, 
neg
  ativ
ely and positively, to these challenges through their 
governance and business activities and how they are affect -
ed b
y these challenges.
Overview: The Masters in Management consists of several core cours
-
es f
or all students as well as specialisations that can be 
chosen in the second part of the Masters. The Sustainability 
Revision of the programme introduced a new core course on sustainability (16 hours) for all students. On the Berlin campus, two existing specialisations were revised: in Sus
-
tain
 abilit
y Management (fall semester, 120 hours), as well 
as introduced a new specialisation on Sustainable Finance (spring term, 120 hours).
Learning objective & teaching methods:The new ESCP’s core course on sustainability combines 
lectures, case studies, group works and projects to provide 
students with an understanding of the big issues related to sustainability (i.e. global warming) and their impact on societies and business. It evaluates the link of sustainability and business via governance, metrics, valuation strategies, innovation, entrepreneurship and corporate sustainability management. At the end of the course, students will be ca
-
p
able of identifying business impacts on ecosystems, society 
and economy, reporting on sustainability in business, as well as applying approaches of entre- and intrapreneurship to resolve unsustainable issues.
The revised specialisation on Sustainability Management 
taught by Prof. Lüdeke-Freund helps students to acquire key skills needed to integrate sustainability considerations into business activities. The track includes specific courses on Environmental Management, Marketing for Sustainability Transition and Responsible Supply Chains: The specialisation also focuses on innovation and future industries impacted and developed out of sustainability concerns. ‘Managing the future’ evaluates trends on digitalization and sustainability, such as green start-ups, social business, circular and sharing economy.
As sustainability is becoming a new normal for corporations 
and regulators, there is an urgent need for finance experts that understand how to combine sustainability with prof
-
Main SDGs tackled in MIM

----- PAGE 14 -----

15
Sustainability Reportitability interests. The new specialisation on Sustainable 
Finance taught by Prof. Basse Mama equips students with necessary knowledge to apply sustainability principles to corporate finance, financial reporting and management control. It is aimed at students that are interested in the contribution of finance to the transition to a climate-neutral, green, competitive and inclusive economy and may pursue a career as financial analyst, investment portfolio manager, auditor or in corporate finance. Teaching methods include lectures, case studies, exercises, individual and group work as well as contributions by guest speakers.
Bachelor in Management on Berlin campus: Conscious Leadership 
and Impact Entrepreneurship
Goal of the course:
The course was brought in the Bachelor in Management 
to introduce students in their 3 year of studies to the fields of Conscious Leadership and Impact Entrepreneurship. The course aims to teach students about the relevance of a purpose and impact vision in business, the organisational requirements for an innovative impact venture, as well as  
how to apply purpose and impact-driven business approach
-
es. It c
omplements traditional courses on leadership and 
entrepreneurship with an additional focus on impact and purpose in business.
Overview:Students learn about neuroscientific findings and their im
-
pli
 cations on c
onscious leadership, managing teams and 
decision-making in business. Theory is thought alongside 
practical approaches of holistic communication and tools in a business context.Additionally, students gain an in-depth understanding about the philosophy, components, challenges and practical tools of impact entrepreneurship such as track impact mea
-
sur
ements.Teaching methods:
The course uses a range of teaching methods such as lec -
tur
es, case studies and project work to enable students to 
apply and verify their knowledge.Highlights: The course is taught by ESCP Berlin campus professors in 
collaboration with an external expert on Ethical Education and System Entrepreneurship.
Ideas to go beyond
(1) Use digitalisation an d e-learning in order to spread 
sustainability-related learning across modules and programmes. For instance, the creation of MOOCs, virtual guest speakers and widespread use of digital case studies can foster the easy implementation of sustainability across teaching programmes.Main SDGs tackled in BIM
(2) De velop and strengthen our partnerships with businesses, NGOs, and other organisations through 
further cooperation and to increase the number of learning-oriented partnerships.
(3)
 P
romote integration of sustainability in all courses regardless of specialisation or programme.

----- PAGE 15 -----



----- PAGE 16 -----

17
Sustainability Report
Principle 4:  
Research 
ESCP Berlin campus has a long tradition of research on 
sus
 tainable busin
ess which is carried out by individual re -
se
archers and organized at ESCP Berlin campus’ research 
centers and chairs for sustainability. Over the past 3 years, ESCP Berlin campus has been involved in more than 22 sustain
  abilit y-related publications, various books and 
book chapters, and held over 17 conference presentations. Additionally, the number of PhD students that carry out sustainability-related PhD projects at ESCP Berlin campus  
is constantly increasing.Principle 4 | Research: We will engage in conceptual and empirical research that advances 
our understanding about the role, dynamics, and impact of corporations in the creation of sustainable social, environmental and economic value.
Research Infrastructure
Sustainability research at ESCP Berlin campus is organised in two Research Centers. The SustBusy Center is an inter
-
nationally Gr
anted Research Center (GRC) which is focused 
on sustainability in general. The Center received funding until 2019 and published various sustainability-centered publications within this period. Secondly, the Jean-Baptiste Say Institute is a regular institute at ESCP which focuses specifically on Entrepreneurship & Innovation.Additionally, the Chair of Environment and Economics of Prof. Sylvie Geisendord and the Chair for Corporate Sus
-
tain
 abilit
y of Prof. Florian Lüdeke-Freund are involved in 
research and host various sustainability-related research projects.

----- PAGE 17 -----

Sylvie Geisendorf  
Professor for Sustainability and Academic Director of the Msc in International 
Sustainability Management at ESCP Berlin campus
Aigner, A., Wilken, R., Geisendorf, S. (2019):  
The Effectiveness of Promotional Cues for Organic Products in the German Retail Market. 
Sustainability 11(24).
Publications 
ESCP Berlin campus professors, researchers and fellows have been involved in the peer-reviewed publication of 17 papers 
and articles on sustainability. Topics evaluated include for instance sustainable supply chain methods, business models for sustainable development, entrepreneurship & digitalisation, stakeholder and shareholder approaches and the sharing economy. 
The market for organic products is constantly growing, but successfully promoting them re
-
mains a c
ontroversial issue. Marketing research 
shows that organic products such as fruits and vegetables cannot be advertised effectively via monetary promotions (e.g., discounts); how
 e
ver, how promotional effectiveness is 
af
 f
ected by other promotional actions (e.g., 
offering premiums instead of discounts) or the product type promoted (e.g., promoting hedonic products such as organic ice cream instead of utilitarian products) has not been empirically investigated to date. Through a study conducted with 487 German participants, we demonstrate that monetary promotion is less effective for organic than for conventional products. In contrast, non-monetary promotion (via offering increased content) enhances pro
-
m
otional effectiveness more for organic than 
for conventional products. Increased heuristic processing can explain these findings, as con
-
sum
ers focus more on the heuristic cues offered 
by non-monetary promotion when confronted with organic, and in particular hedonic organic, products.The Chair of Environment and Economics focuses on Agent-Based-Modelling on the basis of Behavioural and Evolutionary Economics with application in Ecological Economics. They have written several papers on climate-economic multi-agent modelling, multi-agent analysis of sustainability policy, and circular economy.
The Chair for Corporate Sustainability works on corpo
 r
ate 
sustainability management and sustainable entrepreneur -ship
, with a focus on innovation and business models.  
They published papers on business models for sus
-
tainabilit
y, values-based innovations and alternative 
business paradigms.

----- PAGE 18 -----

19
Sustainability ReportConference Presentations 
ESCP Berlin campus professors have presented their studies and shared their findings at numerous national and inter -
national c
onferences such as “5th International Conference on New Business Models”, “ISPIM Innovation Conference”, 
“Degrowth Vienna 2020” to mention a few. A strong focus lies on the role of business models and business model inno -
v
ation for sustainable development but a diverse range of topics have been present over the last years.
Christian Durach  
Professor at the Chair of Supply Chain and Operations Management at ESCP Berlin campus
Wiengarten, F. and Durach, C. F. (2019): “Sustainable supply chain management: Why have 
we missed out on animal welfare?” 2018 POMS Annual Conference, Houston, Texas, USA
The article presented at the conference ex -
plor
es whether and why animal welfare, a 
cen
 tr
al subject matter within animal ethics, 
has often been overlooked in the quest for sus
-
tainabilit
y within supply chain management, 
both in research and practice. Using the lens 
of utilitarianism, we theorize animal welfare to be part of an organization’s responsibility for sustainability. Specifically, we postulate that organizations that express responsibility for society and the environment also experience an obligation and act to reduce animal suf
-
f
er in
g. To test our proposition, we collect 
secondary data on all licensed slaughtering plants in the United States and explore the extent to which animal welfare is part of such companies’ sustainability conceptualization – proxied by their sustainability certifications. We conceptualize ‘unnecessary animal suf
-
f
er in
g’ through breaches of the humane 
slaughter act as observed by the Food Safety and Inspec
 tion Ser
vice. Our results reveal that 
in the meat processing industry, organizations’ responsibility for sustainability does not extend to animal welfare. The normative implications are that company management, regulators and consumers need to assume responsibility for the treatment of animals beyond our current certification standards. 
Books & Chapters 
In addition to articles and papers, various books and book chapters were written or co-developed by ESCP Berlin campus professors. Topics covered include ethical purchasing methods, sustainable stakeholder management, business models for sustainable consumption, and values-based business models.
Florian Lüdeke-Freund  
Professor for Corporate Sustainability at the Chair of Corporate Sustainability at ESCP 
Berlin campus
Lüdeke-Freund, F.; Bohnsack, R.; Breuer, H. & Massa, L. (2019): Research on Sustainable 
Business Model Patterns – Status quo, Methodological Issues, and a Research Agenda, in: Aagaard, A. (Ed.): Sustainable Business Models. Houndmills: Palgrave, 25 – 60.
This chapter describes avenues for future 
research to develop a ‘sustainable business model pattern language’. The chapter reflects on how sustainable business model (SBM) patterns can be identified, described, and turned into a design language to support the development of more sustainable organ
-
isations. Suc
h organisations solve ecological, 
social, and economic problems through new approaches to proposing, delivering, capturing, and creating value. Theoretical and conceptual elements as well as methodological issues of developing a SBM pattern language are discussed. The value of using patterns in practice is illustrated with two business model innovation tools, one analogue and one digital, that use different patterns, including revenue and pricing, circular economy, and sustainable business model patterns. Finally, questions for future research are proposed.

----- PAGE 19 -----

Florian Wissuwa  
research assistant to the Chair of Supply Chain and Operations Management, ESCP 
Business School – Berlin campus
Wissuwa, F., & Durach, C. F. (2021). Turning German automotive supply chains into 
sponsors for sustainability. Production Planning & Control, 290 (1), 1 – 14.
PhD Research Projects 
ESCP Berlin campus encourages PhD projects in sustainability-related domains. Various professors and experts support  
the students in their research and thesis development. For instance, the Chair of Environment and Economics has 
published 9 papers on sustainability topics since 2018, while the Chair for Corporate Sustainability has written 11 papers.
In recent decades, supply chains have become a critical source of competitive advantage. Yet, in the German automotive industry, these very supply chains have also turned out to be un
 tr
ans
 p
arent and prone to sustainability 
breaches, with the Volkswagen manipulation scandal exemplifying the financial and re
-
putational c
onsequences. Many firms today, 
there
 f
ore, focus on what is called sustainable 
supply chain management (SSCM); that is, the focal firm’s management of its supply chain’s operations by equally integrating economic, environmental, and social issues. While the drivers, barriers, and performance implications of SSCM have been widely explored, little is known about its actual implementation pro
 c
ess.Building on the foundations of organizational change, this study inductively analyzed 54 sus
 tainabilit
y reports from three German 
automotive triads between 2014 and 2019 to close this research gap. Our results led to the development of a framework that sequentially employed the nine most prominent implemen
-
tation st
eps to plan, execute and stabilize a 
firm’s SSCM implementation efforts; thereby, the framework not only expands our current knowledge on the SSCM implementation pro
 c
ess itself, but it furthermore serves as an 
example for industry experts aiming to turn their own supply chains into sponsors for sustainability.
Ideas to go beyond: 
(1) Analy se the previous research and publications at ESCP Berlin campus 
based on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. This step is important to map all research publica
 tions tr
ansparently and define strengths and 
weaknesses in the research agenda.
(2)
 Re
-initiate the funding period for the SustBusy Center and create a 
special fund for thematic research on sustainability in order to foster sustainability-focused research at ESCP Berlin campus. A supportive and solid research infrastructure at the organ
 isation is crucial t
o supply 
researchers and fellows with the necessary means and resources to carry out their research.

----- PAGE 20 -----

21 Sustainability ReportPrinciple 5 & 6:  
Partnership & Dialogue 
ESCP Berlin campus’ relations with external stakeholders 
are crucial to provide an excellent learning experience for their students and to conduct research activities of qual
-
it
y and scale. ESCP has close relations with businesses, 
non-  go
vernmental organisations, foundations and public 
institutions at all of its 5 locations. For instance, ESCP Berlin campus holds a close partnership with the United Nations Environmental Programme for one of its specialised Master programmes and regularly invites guest speakers from Principle 1 | Partnership: We will interact with managers of business corporations to extend our 
knowledge of their challenges in meeting social and environmental responsibilities and to explore jointly effective approaches to meeting these challenges.
Principle 2 | Dialogue: We will facilitate and support dialog and debate among educators, 
students, business, government, consumers, media, civil society organisations and other 
interested groups and stakeholders on critical issues related to global social responsibility and sustainability.
different backgrounds of expertise to participate in the programmes. It hosts and sponsors international confer
-
en
ces to foster and promote sustainable development in 
business, and partners up with other universities to combine research forces. Additionally, individual researchers from ESCP Berlin campus as well as the local Sustainability Ad
-
vi
 sor
y Board are dedicated to promote sustainable devel
-
opm
ent at ESCP Berlin campus from within.
Strategy for stakeholder engagement and partnerships
ESCP Berlin campus holds long-term school-wide partnerships, temporary and programme-specific partnerships and actively engages in international conferences and research around the topic of sustainable development and innovation.
21 Sustainability Report

----- PAGE 21 -----

Programme-specifi  c partnerships for sustainability
An educational network for sustainability: ESCP Berlin campus partners up with WWF to develop a 
community for sustainability and sustainable practices on campus.
In December 2020, ESCP agreed with WWF on a partnership with the aim to collaborate in several fi  elds of sustainable business and to evaluate the possi-bilities for a joint Center for Sustainability Transformation.
ESCP Berlin campus and WWF support each other in developing teaching 
formats and exchanging teaching elements and guest speakers. One focus lies on the integration of WWF resources in the ESCP Bachelor in Management. Resources for research on topics of mutual interest such as sustainable busi-ness models and circular economy approaches are combined. One purpose of the partnership is the implementation of community & networking events such as talks with partners from the economy and the public, as well as further formats such as an SDG conference, New Business Model Conference and job fairs. The development of the Center of Sustainability Transformation., a forum for sustainability & entrepreneurship, aims to support start-up activities and to foster the public discussion about sustainable entrepreneurship. Ultimately, WWF participates in the local Sustainability Advisory Board to support the implementation of sustainable practices on campus.
Together towards sustainability: ‘Sustainable natives’, a sustainability-focused consultancy, supports ESCP Berlin campus in developing the MSEI programme.
In 2020, the Masters in Sustainability Entrepreneur-ship and Innovation and the “sustainable natives eG”, an association for sustainable company consul tancy, established a partnership focusing on the domains of teaching, career development and community management. Experts and profes-sionals from the sustainable natives eG mentor and support students from the Master in Sustainability Entrepreneurship & Innovation over the course of their 1-year Business Development Project. At the end of the project, the sustainable natives support ESCP Berlin campus in developing the jury composition which evaluates the fi  nal projects. A further goal is a communal advisory board of ESCP Berlin campus & sustainable natives for the practical development of the programme and to support students in fi  nding internships and career opportunities.

----- PAGE 22 -----

23 Sustainability ReportSustainable lifestyles and business: UNEP supports ESCP Berlin campus in integrating sustainable 
living approaches into the curriculum.
The strategic partnership between the Masters in Sustainability Entrepreneur-ship and Innovation and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) aims to integrate sustainable living approaches into the business school cur-riculum. At the heart of the collaboration is UNEP’s Sustainable Lifestyles Framework, which encourages evidence-based everyday individual choices and actions contributing to the SDGs. UNEP takes on an active role in the programme to teach students how to translate concepts like circularity and sustainable consumption into business models that provide more viable, attractive sustainable living choices for people. In 2021, the fi  rst interactive challenge & campaign, as part of the programme’s curriculum, was launched. Students developed a Social Media campaign to promote sustainable consumption with the guidance and support of UNEP experts.
Bringing stakeholders closer together: the Conference for Sustainable Innovation at ESCP Berlin campus.
Every year, ESCP Berlin campus invites students and experts to the Conference for Sustainable Innovation. Over the past years, invited guests included experts from organisations such as WWF, oikos International and the Federal Ministry for Cooperation & Development. Participants can contribute their solutions to solve sustainability issues and ideas on how to reach the 17 UN goals for sus-tainable development in lectures, discussion rounds and workshops. Topics discussed range from green banking, sustainable supply chains to sustainable fashion.
ESCP Berlin campus is a sponsor and partner of the New Business Model Conference and hosted the 4
th edition at its Berlin campus. Florian Lüdeke-
Freund, professor at ESCP Berlin campus, is co-chair of the conference series. The aim of the conference is to explore the potential of new business models to contribute to sustainable development and solve societal challenges. The programme includes collecting and showcasing papers on New Business Models for sustainability, debates and panel discussions with experts, as well as workshops and doctoral programmes to foster PhD projects in the topic.Developing new business models for sustainability: ESCP Berlin campus and the New Business Model Conference

----- PAGE 23 -----

Research-related partnerships for sustainability 
ESCP Berlin campus considers research one of its core qualities and levers to foster, promote and con-
tribute to sustainable development at ESCP Berlin campus and beyond. ESCP Berlin campus actively engages and promotes sustainability-research internally and via its PhD programmes, as well as via partnerships and joint forces with external organisations.
ESCP Berlin campus participated in the large-scale international research pro-ject ‘R2π’ which examines ways to shift from the broad concept of a Circular Economy (CE) to one of specifi  c Circular Economy Business Models (CEBM). Aim of the project was to highlight sustainable business models for a circular economy and propose policy measures that can support such business models. Numerous case studies covering different sectors and countries were quan-titatively analysed to identify best practices and develop a toolbox and policy guidelines to support businesses and policy makers. The project received a total funding of 3 million Euros through the Horizon2020 research programme of the European Union and lasted from 2016 to 2019. Further partner organisations included the Carbon Trust, CSR Europe and the Institute of Innovative Economy.Developing circular economy business models: the R2π project
In collaboration with the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), ESCP Berlin campus conducted a systematic review on ‘business model for sus-tainability’. Prof. Florian Lüdeke-Freund and Tobias Froese from the ESCP, as well as Dr. Lorenzo Massa from the EPFL were involved in the project.Reviewing business models for sustainability with the EPF Lausanne

----- PAGE 24 -----

25 Sustainability Report
Being part of a strong network: the HOCH-N Network
ESCP Berlin campus has been one of the fi  rst business schools to become a 
member of HOCH-N – a German joint project that was funded by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) with the goal to promote the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in a network of higher education institutions.Common Good 
PRME
ESCP has been a member of the PRME network but fi  rst became active in January 2021. The benefi  ts of being a member of PRME include the sharing of good practices in terms of sustainability implementation, receiving feedback by and giving feedback to partners linked to sustainability, sparking a valuable discussion by presenting in front of all members at an annual 3-day event. Hence, this membership is an opportunity to build lasting partnerships aimed towards the integration of sustainability practices and trainings (i.e. with NGOs). 
The PRME membership is divided by chapters, which include Benelux and France, Belgium, the Nether-
lands, and Luxembourg. Each member must conduct a yearly CSR report on the topic of sustainability to be published. ESCP is currently in the process of writing theirs, which will be a federal CSR report covering all ESCP campuses. An online platform allows the participants to connect with each other, serving as a great networking opportunity and support system. 
Ideas to go beyond: 
(1) Increase the number of partnerships 
and collaborations with further universities that follow the same vision and mission to spread sustainability across the organi-sation. Partnerships facilitate resource and knowledge exchange, extend ESCP Berlin campus’ network and give its students further opportunities.
(2) Use the PRME network to establish 
partnerships with organisations, departments and research centers.

----- PAGE 25 -----



----- PAGE 26 -----

27
Sustainability ReportAddendum Principle:  
Organisational Sustainability 
Operations at ESCP Berlin campus represent an important 
field of action when reporting about sustainability. The indi
-
cat
ors that make up this category play a role in supporting 
both staff and students in living more sustainably depending on the choices made and options offered by the school. At ESCP Berlin campus, the indicators that best represent its operations in terms of sustainability are as follows: Diversity & Equal Opportunity, Ethics Compliance, Green Space & Bio
-
div
ersity, Heating and Electricity, Mobility, Quality Control, 
and Waste Management. Addendum Principle: We will continuously reduce our emissions and usage of natural resources 
on the operational level and motivate socially responsible, inclusive and diversity-supporting organisational development.
Diving Into Diversity & Equal Opportunity 
Throughout its history, ESCP has demonstrated its attach -
m
ent to social inclusion and the promotion of diversity. At 
the end of the 1960s, it was the first Grande Ecole to recruit 
students from outside the preparatory class cycle, and in 2016, the “Diversity and Inclusion Manager” role was created. ESCP has appointed Prof. Cécile Kharoubi as the Associate Dean for Inclusion and Diversity for the school overall – she is a professor of finance located in Paris.
At ESCP Berlin Campus Dr. Stephan Schmuck acts as a 
director for LGBT Leadership programs and coordinates all related activities.
The Berlin campus hosts the Centre for Intercultural Man
-
a
gement, which aims to deepen the understanding of 
intercultural and diversity-related issues in organisations 
and translate scientific insight into practice. There is also a strong focus on women in leadership, both as training in executive education and community events, which is highlighted by the school’s cooperation with PANDA (the women leadership network) and through its student societies, including Women in Leadership (London & ESCP overall); MAYA (Berlin); and ESCAPE-LGBT Society (Paris, London, Berlin). 
One important program to highlight in this arena is the 
Women in Leadership online programme, a personal devel
-
opm
ent programme for leading women, aimed towards 
building leadership presence and impact as well as building networking, communication, and negotiation skills. 
Beyond the school’s general commitment to diversity and 
its promotion, the Berlin campus signed the Charta der Vielfalt in September 2015. Since then, the Berlin campus regularly takes part in the Germany Diversity Day to make its commitment to diversity management publicly visible. ESCP recognizes and celebrates the variety of cultural and international backgrounds of students and staff as much as their religious views, sexual orientation and identities or social backgrounds. 
Together for a diverse 
workplace campaign.  
8th Diversity Day in 
Germany, 2020
Photo credits : ESCP

----- PAGE 27 -----

Ideas to go beyond 
(1) Re view and update the school’s mission statement on Diversity and  
Inclusion and define mid- and long-term aims. 
(2) Identif
y potential systemic and/or contingent faultlines/discrimination  
in the current system across all departments (academic to HR).
(3)
 C
ommunicate and increase visibility internally & externally the  
mission statement and actions related to D&I.Highlight: Promoting Equal Participation in Management Positions 
At the Berlin campus, Professor Marion Festing and the Chair of Human Resource Management pro -
vided scientific suppor
t to the German Federal Ministry for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and 
Youth (BMfSFJ) for the evaluation of the law on the equal participation of women and men in man
-
a
gement positions in the private sector and public service (FüPoG). They prepared an evaluation report 
with companies Kienbaum and Flick Gocke Schaumburg. 
In terms of partnerships in place to promote diversity, 
ESCP Berlin campus launched the first European LGBT-Leadership program in 2019. The previous year, ESCP Berlin campus hosted the RAHM LGBT Leadership Competition on its campus which brought together over 100+ young leadership talents. The second edition has been successfully passed online with our new partner Proud at Work. The specific focus in recent years has been on LGBT content such as the webinar undertaken as part of the Diversity Day 2020 hosted by Prof. Kerstin Alfes, “Creating LGBTQ Inclusive Work Environments” and the follow-up, “Why LGBT+ Inclusion is a Key to Long-Term Success in Business”. In March 2021, Berlin also offered a Virtual Transgender Awareness Training in cooperation with Accenture.

----- PAGE 28 -----

29
Sustainability Report
Ethics Compliance 
Employee rights are protected through reviews con  duc ted 
by the Human Resources Department, which abides by 
all currency applicable employment law regula
 tions. All
 
legal obligations regarding the employer’s duty of care are observed, including the following: Occupational Health and Safety Act (ArbSchG); Working Hours Act (ArbZG); Youth Employment Protection Act (JArbSchG); Maternity Protection Act (MuSchG); Employee Protection Act (BSchG); Law on the protection against dismissal (KSchG); General Equal Treatment Act (AGG); etc. Further, ESCP Berlin campus works with an occupational safety company to ac
 quir
e 
knowledge within this area of expertise. 
Within the recruitment process, ESCP Berlin campus follows 
all legal requirements surrounding equal opportunity and diversity standards by adhering to the provisions of the General Equal Treatment Act (AGG) to guide this process, specifically the Neutrality Principle, in all career postings. Once admitted into the school, students must commit and adhere to the Code of Conduct of ESCP Business School, which lists out a set of rules to be followed as well as appro
-
pr
iate sanctions in case of the code’s violation.
In terms of oversight, the HR department verifies the over -
all a
dherence to the AGG in terms of gender equality and 
diversity, and the Works Council, more specifically, checks if these laws and principles are respected within the recruit
-
m
ent process and conducts meetings once a month to 
discuss related issues and strategic solutions. This council is made up of seven duly elected members who serve to represent the interests of the employees as is regulated by the Works Constitution Act (BtrVG). It has extensive co-determination rights, which allows it to participate in the day-to-day running of the school.
Highlight: How to Further Promote Equal Rights on Campus 
Ms. Anne Ulbright is appointed as the Equal Opportunity Officer in charge of promoting equal rights for women and men and plays a supporting role within the following tasks: Eliminating existing disadvantages based on gender; preventing future disadvantages; and upholding legal regulations that deal with the improvement of family friendliness, compatibility, and care. 
Green Spaces & Biodiversity on Campus 
Green space on the Berlin campus of ESCP consists of nearly 4,000 square meters, representing a third of the total surface area of the school and consisting of areas for parking, waste disposal, and a recently built and managed garden. The garden located on campus started in 2019, with the first generation of the student association Oikos Berlin, and consists of herbs in a raised bed, fruit trees, and bushes. It is managed by staff members, mainly the school gardener, and oikos Berlin, which has involved the garden in several projects like the creation of an insect hotel, beehive, and bird nest – all of which target native and non-threatening species.
In terms of biodiversity, a report conducted by an ornithol
-
ogist in 2
020 identifies around 30 bird species and details 
various information about the plant species located on 
campus. Most notable from this report is the presence of eight nests of bird species: the House Sparrow (Passer Domesticus) located on the south facade of building A, 
Photo credits : ESCP/private

----- PAGE 29 -----

which is listed as near-threatened in Germany due to recent 
and dramatic declines. According to the Federal Nature Conservation Act (BNatSchG), it is forbidden to catch, in
-
jur
e, or kill wild protected species or to remove, damage, 
or destroy their forms of development, breeding sites, and resting places -- an utmost priority for ESCP in the face of any planned renovation measures on campus.
Ideas to go beyond 
(1) C ontinuous reporting on water 
consumption and biodiversity data.Highlight: Alumni Leverage 
the Campus Garden thanks to Permanagement and Permaculture
In order to foster responsible leadership and 
increase awareness around sustainability, permanagement/permaculture projects were initiated on the Berlin campus garden. The term permanagement was coined by NATWORK, a start-up founded by ESCP Alumni. The workshops consist of experimenting managerial and leadership inspired by nature through different experimentations, games and observations.
Heating and Electricity 
The buildings that make up ESCP Berlin campus have been granted the status of historical monument, which means that there are issues related to energy efficiency and heating (mainly in terms of insulation) that come with older styles of infrastructure. 
To combat these issues of sustainability in the energy 
sector, ESCP Berlin campus sources its electricity solely from renewable sources and has installed motion detec
-
t
ors, automatic sensors, and LED lights to combat exces
-
siv
e and unnecessary electricity use. Ideas to go beyond 
(1) Impr ove the environmental  
performance buildings through  
insulation and window change.
(2)
 C
ontinue collecting the monthly data for 
electricity and heating and centralize the information for continuous monitoring.
Highlight: Working with a Green Electricity Provider 
From April 1st 2021, ESCP Berlin campus has switched to the green electricity provider that was audited and certified by TÜV Nord as a 100% renewable energy sources provider. That means that the electricity the campus gets comes from renewable energy resources and thus supports our transformation to a sustainable campus.Photo credits : ESCP/private

----- PAGE 30 -----

31
Sustainability Report
Berlin’s Carbon Footprint in  
terms of Mobility 
ESCP Berlin campus is located in Charlottenburg and is 
well-connected. In terms of public transport, two buses (309, M45) and a subway line (Ring Bahn) lead to school. The school also offers a large number of bike racks to encourage students to come by bicycle. Other means of transport include on foot, e-bike/scooter, motorcycle, car sharing, individual car, etc. 
One of the major initiatives of the Green Office at ESCP’s 
Berlin campus is to streamline work-related travel by staff members and other associates. The team has dedicated its time to organizing and digitizing all work travel related information as well as calculating exactly how many tons of carbon emissions for which the Berlin campus is responsible. The Green Office found that the Berlin campus business travel represents 255,634 t of CO2e in 2018, and 251,497 t (-1.62 %) in 2019, mainly (99.6 %) from air travel. In addition, 27 % of all air travel was between Paris and Berlin, and 18 % was within Germany. Using trains as a low-carbon alternative for ESCP business travel within Germany and to Paris would lead to a CO2e reduction of 128,190 t over 2 years. For perspective, this number equals the electricity needed in one year to power 20 standard houses, according to the EPA.
Highlight: First Steps Towards the Creation of Travel Policy 
A great place to start in designing an effective travel policy is to measure employee sentiment and willingness to adopt more sustainable travel options. This paves the way for determining points of friction or areas where internal communication is needed. A survey conducted found that over 50 % of the participants from various staff departments indicated that it is very important for ESCP to set clear sustainable travel policy guidelines for staff/ professors, and 45% indicated that they would be willing to travel up to 6 hours on the train to avoid air travel. This information has helped spark a conversation within the school and pioneer the first travel policy.
Ideas to go beyond 
(1) Me asure the overall carbon footprint of Berlin campus.
(2)
 Defin
e a CO2e reduction goal and a strategy to align with the Paris Agreement.
(3)
 Cr
eate and implement sustainable travel policy for the Berlin campus. Apart from flight  
restrictions, this can take the form of an incentive program to reward carbon-conscious staff.
(4)
 P
rovide strategic options to avoid unnecessary travels such as virtual conferences, interviews, 
webinars, etc.
(5)
 C
ontinuous and transparent monitoring and reporting of these travel-habits, which can be 
presented as department-specific monthly reports that track and detail work-travel habits.

----- PAGE 31 -----

Quality Control of Sustainability Efforts on Campus 
The Positive Impact Rating is a rating system regarding 
the sustainability level of business schools worldwide. Each school is assessed by their own students in terms of their positive impact on society through a framework provided by the UN Goals for Sustainable Development (UN SDGs), with a total of 30 business schools being considered and published in this first round. Business schools can be ranked according to 5 levels with 1 being the lowest and 5 being the highest. 
At ESCP Berlin campus, a survey was sent to all students 
by the oikos Berlin student society, AIESEC, and Net Im
-
p
act, who joined forces with WWF Switzerland, OXFAM 
International, and UN Global Compact Switzerland to launch this radically new business school rating. The school was ranked in the top 30 schools as a Level 3, similarly to other institutions such as EDHEC Business School or University of Toronto. ESCP Business School was the only business school in Germany to make it into the rating in 2019/20. 
Since 2021 ESCP Berlin has been supporting the “Donate 
Your Deposit” project of Berliner Tafel, an association providing more than 1.6 million socially and economically disadvantaged people with food throughout the country. All deposit bottles are centrally collected on campus and brought to a recycling station. Generated money goes entirely to the Berliner Tafel association.
Ideas to go beyond
(1) C ontinue monitoring 
and collect
 in
g feedback 
of stakeholders on sustainability performance of the school. Use sustainability reports as a monitoring tool to track progress.
Photo credits : ESCP/private

----- PAGE 32 -----

33 Sustainability Reportdoor locations, separating packaging materials and plastics 
from paper, glass, and residual waste. The imple mentation of recycling bins is a relatively new initiative, pushed forward in 2018 by the oikos Berlin student society. All bins are collected twice a week by waste management companies. 
Further, all of the garden waste is composted in a desig-
nated composting section near the garden, which is later used as fertilizer, and food waste from events is tackled by distribution to student associations and staff. ESCP is also pushing for more sustainability practices such as using reusable cutlery and avoiding plastics during events, where glass bottles are used and collected for recycling purposes. 
All Things Waste 
Waste management is another strategic operations sector that is needed to ensure ESCP’s contribution to local envi-ron mental protection, pollution reduction, and the encour-agement of recycling and other eco-friendly waste disposal measures throughout the ESCP community. It is important to note that the school’s waste management strategy is highly dependent on the city’s waste man agement strategy, with Berlin prioritizing the circular economy through refi  ned waste sorting operations. 
ESCP Berlin campus’ contribution to this fi  eld includes 
strategically placing bins for waste segregation throughout the campus, including two outdoor locations and twelve in-
Ideas to go beyond
(1) Report on actual waste 
in tonnes to allow for comparisons. 
(2) Invest in organic waste bins 
and waste management.
Photo credits : © iStock.com/FotoMaximum

----- PAGE 33 -----

Closing remarks
With our first PRME report, we would like to celebrate all the efforts our 
faculty, students and staff members have made to support the school´s sustainability transformation. This report also highlights our status quo and identifies the opportunities for growth and improvement. As formulated in our mission statement, we are committed to empower an environmentally, socially, and economically conscious community by offering education and learning experiences that build on principles of responsible and sustainable business. This requires us to continuously challenge our current practices and aspire for more ambitious goals, since the actions implemented in this new decade are crucial in order to tackle environmental, social and economical crises the best way we possibly can. 
We deeply thank our Green Office Berlin for the publication of this report 
and our Faculty and Staff for all their contributions, but also all the colleagues across ESCP campuses who continuously work to promote the sustainability agenda on all levels.
For more information about sustainability at the ESCP Berlin Campus and its 
future projects, please contact the Green Office Berlin team:  
greenoffice.berlin@escp.eu

----- PAGE 34 -----

Sustainability 
Report 2022 
ESCP Berlin Campus
Ranking 2021
This document is not contractual. Please check our website for updated information.
Photo credits : Dan TsantilisBERLIN
Heubnerweg 8–10
14059 Berlin, Deutschland
LONDON
527 Finchley RoadLondon NW3 7BG, United Kingdom
MADRID
Arroyofresno 128035 Madrid, EspañaPARIS RÉPUBLIQUE
79, av. de la République75543 Paris Cedex 11, France
PARIS MONTPARNASSE
3, rue Armand Moisant75015 Paris, France
TURIN
Corso Unione Sovietica, 218 bis10134 Torino, ItaliaWARSAW
c/o Kozminski UniversityInternational Relation Office57/59 Jagiellońska St.03-301 Warsaw, PolandESCP benefits from the best international accreditations.Our European campuses enjoy national recognition.
5 European Higher Ed 
accreditations