
----- PAGE 1 -----

2025SUSTAINABILITY AND 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
REPORT

----- PAGE 2 -----

2 3
ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025 ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025ESSEC is a business school with 
programs ranging from Bachelor 
to PhD, a wide range of Masters 
programs including our ﬂ  agship Master 
in Management and Global MBA 
programs. ESSEC also oﬀ  ers executive 
education and custom training 
designed and developed on-demand 
for our partners from the private 
sector. ESSEC holds the “Triple crown”
of accreditations for global business 
education: EQUIS, AACSB and AMBA.
At the core of the ESSEC learning 
experience is a combination of 
excellence and distinctiveness.
ESSEC’s unique educational model 
is based on education by experiences, 
that foster the acquisition of 
cutting-edge knowledge with the 
development of know-how and life 
skills. At ESSEC, we aim to empower 
students and give them the keys 
to imagine, create, lead and have a 
positive impact in the business world 
of tomorrow that will be more complex 
and changing ever more rapidly.
ESSEC is a world-school. Our 
International campuses in Asia-Paciﬁ  c 
and Africa are dual gateways that 
allow students to really immerse 
themselves into diﬀ  erent cultures 
worldwide and develop genuine 
expertise about business in those 
regions. They allow our school to build 
deeper alliances with academic, private 
and public partners in those regions 
that are growing at an accelerated 
pace and will be leaders of economic 
growth in tomorrow’s world. ESSEC 
has built a network of alliances with 
academic partners worldwide so 
that its students’ learning journey 
is a true international one.ESSEC is a school with French Roots 
that trains responsible leaders.
Being a responsible leader means 
being able to see beyond business 
as usual. Responsible leaders are 
able to value long-term beneﬁ  ts 
over short-term proﬁ  ts; they are able 
to blend corporate performance 
with employees’ well-being. To 
prepare its students for the world of 
tomorrow, ESSEC’s pedagogy seeks 
to awaken and develop creative 
and critical thinking, together with 
the learning-by-doing method. 
Responsible leaders are those who 
can see the broader picture.
ESSEC is a full ecosystem at the 
crossroad of rigorous and relevant 
research, innovation, business and 
society. At ESSEC we believe in 
bringing research and companies 
into the classroom, we also believe 
that learning doesn’t end with a 
degree: learning at ESSEC means 
becoming a life-long learner and 
joining a close-knit community 
of alumni with over 74,000 
members all across the globe.ESSEC 
BUSINESS SCHOOL
Key ﬁ  gures
managers in executive educationFINANCIAL TIMES 
BUSINESS EDUCATION 
RANKINGS#1o
Master in 
Management
(2024)#8
European 
Business School
(2024)#4
Master in 
Finance
(2024)#9
Executive 
Education 
Custom
(2024)
74,OOO
ESSEC Alumni members
4
campuses in
Paris-Cergy,
Paris-La Défense,
Singapore and Rabat 
CREATED IN 19O7, ESSEC 
BUSINESS SCHOOL IS A 
WORLD-SCHOOL WITH 
FRENCH ROOTS. ITS PURPOSE 
IS TO INFUSE TOMORROW’S 
LEADERSHIP WITH MEANING.Vincenzo Vinzi
Dean and President 
of ESSEC Business School
5,OOO7,855
students in full-time undergraduate 
and graduate programs
8O
PhD
students+1oo
student 
organizations37.47%
nationalities
representedinternational
students+1oo
+ 1,OOOpartner companiespartner universities
in 50 countries
double degree programs 
(25 international, 6 national)
permanent faculty of 37 nationalities 
including 25 Emeriti professors
learning and research chairs23O
31
194
25“The time has come to surpass boundaries. This is the core of 
our new strategic plan, Transcend. By 2028 we are committed to 
leading a future-fit business education that promotes progress. 
Opening the world by going beyond physical and intangible 
borders, preconceived notions, and biases. 
Surpassing ourselves, focused on the future while staying true to 
the humanist and open values that have always defined us. 
Our Together Institute, whose achievements are outlined in this 
document, is a perfect illustration of this.”
A 360-degree vision has enabled ESSEC to make a significant difference in the integration of 
environmental and social issues over the past five years:Vincenzo Vinzi
Dean and President of  
ESSEC Business School
TO REMEMBER
From a pioneering school 
on the subject of social 
innovation 25 years ago
to a school providing a solid 
foundation of skills on the 
issues of ecological and 
social transition to 100% of 
its students, and offering a 
very wide range of specialized 
trainings on these subjects.
From a historic campus 
in Cergy, very mineral 
and typical of the 70s, 
to 4 campuses that favor 
biodiversity,  take care of 
their users, save energy
and produce some renewable 
one locally, reduce 
their waste production, 
promote quality food,…
From a pioneering school 
for equal opportunities
to a school that works on its own 
inclusiveness and contributes 
to the transition of the territory 
alongside all the stakeholders.

----- PAGE 3 -----

5
ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025 4
ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025
The mission of ESSEC Business School is to shape responsible leaders able to face 
the main contemporary challenges, and this mission is central to everything we do. 
Since 1907, we have fostered a pioneering spirit to place ethics and responsibility 
at the heart of business and management. We renewed this commitment in 
2020 through our environmental and social transition strategy, Together, and 
reinforce it in ESSEC's new strategy, Transcend. Today, we aim to make ESSEC 
a leading business school for ecological and social transition globally.
This ambition builds on the many achievements of recent years. In the 
last two years, this Together strategy has taken a significant step with 
significant evolutions that demonstrate our tangible commitment:
•  Strengthening our core curriculum, through redesigned modules, 
a new specialization track and innovative teaching tools.
•  Launching new executive education programs, enabling 
professionals from all backgrounds to integrate sustainability 
and responsibility principles into their practices.
•  Massively deploying the Diversity Fresco, a collective 
intelligence tool developed by ESSEC and Belugames to highlight 
and thus better counteract discrimination mechanisms, targeting 
students and businesses from various sectors and sizes.
•  Transforming our campuses, constructing exemplary buildings integrating 
sustainability principles, installing a photovoltaic power plant and offering 
more sustainable food, all demonstrating our eco-responsible approach.
•  Creating the Centre for Social and Ecological Innovation, 
dedicated to entrepreneurship and social innovation, 
consolidating our leadership role in these areas.
These advances reflect our collective commitment and the impact of our actions, 
enabling us to keep inspiring and mobilising. In 2024, for the 3rd year running, 
ESSEC is honoured to maintain its 1st rank in the ChangeNOW x Les Echos 
ranking, a recognition of our leadership in environmental and social transition.
Given the challenges we face, we remain clearheaded but deeply 
optimistic. This report is a testament to our conviction that together - 
students, faculty, alumni, partners, … - we can reinvent practices and 
imagine solutions for a more sustainable and desirable future.EDITO
Anne-Claire Pache,
Associate Dean 
for Strategy and 
Sustainability
KEY INDICATORS
100%
of students are  
trained in social and 
environmental issues
130H
of mandatory courses 
on sustainability in the 
Grande École program, and 
120 hours in the GBBA
30%
of Grande Ecole 
students specialized on 
Sustainability Topics TEACHING & EDUCATIONGOVERNANCE & STRATEGY
37
people dedicated to move towards 
ESSEC Social & Environmental 
Sustainability Transformation2
governance bodies 
dedicated to sustainability
SOCIAL POLICY & LOCAL ROOTING
100%
of ESSEC students 
attend the Diversity 
Fresco every year
350+
students with disabilities 
supported by the HandiCapacités 
mission (accommodations, 
scholarships, etc.).
89/100
gender equality score in 2024.
ENVIRONMENT RESEARCH & INNOVATION
60
professors are members of 
the Sustainability Guild33%
of ESSEC’s academic articles 
focus on sustainability 
related themes
12
new professors 
with Sustainability 
expertiseCarbon footprint
-10%
per student*
-30%
Reduction in  
waste volume*Waste recycling rate*:
Increase by
1,9X
*In 23/24 VS 18/19.

----- PAGE 4 -----

6 7
ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025 ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025
© Gettyimages
GOVERNANCE  
& STRATEGY
In 2020, Together marked the beginning of ESSEC's 360° social and 
environmental transition process, placing societal concerns at 
the core of its strategy. Since then, the school has been working to 
implement this ambitious roadmap in order to radically reinvent all of 
its operations and activities.
To ensure the coherence and effectiveness of this strategy, ESSEC has 
established various governance bodies involving all stakeholders 
(faculty, students, alumni, and staff members). These bodies are 
continually reimagined and optimized to maintain their dynamism 
and active role. A structured strategy
As part of ESSEC’s new 2024/2028 strategy, Transcend, the Together Institute keeps shaping our environmental and social 
transformation ambition, a statement of our commitment for 2028. 
It is based on 3 main priorities: answer to environmental stakes, fight against inequalities while promoting diversity, 
and drive change in our society’s structure and organization. These objectives are captured in a roadmap published in 
May 2020 that includes 10 environmental, social, and territorial commitments.
To make it happen, ESSEC is implementing 8 strategic action plans: Training and Pedagogy, Research & Knowledge 
Sharing, Diversity & Inclusion, Circular Economy, Climate and Decarbonisation, Biodiversity, Community 
Engagement & Societal Impact, and Alumni.
It is also about fostering community involvement and managing change within the organization.
This roadmap forms the framework of our Sustainability Master Plan, formalized in 2024.
 Supporting the transition at all levels of governance
ESSEC relies on multi-tiered governance to support its environmental and social transformation:
  The Societal Impact Committee of the Supervisory Board sets and monitors the Sustainability objectives.
  At the Executive Committee level, the Associate Dean for Strategy and Sustainability oversees environmental and social 
issues
  The Together teams, with a staff of 37 people divided into 3 teams, leads the School's transformation efforts in coordination 
with the Executive Committee.
  The Consultative Committee (COCON), made up of 20 members representing multiple internal stakeholders (faculty, 
students, alumni, and staff), provides recommendations on the action plans and allocates the Together Impact Fund.
  The Sustainability Guild, made up of 60 faculty members, fosters collaboration among professors on Sustainability issues 
and strengthens ESSEC's research efforts.
KEY FIGURES
37
people dedicated to 
move towards ESSEC’s 
Social & Environmental 
Sustainability 
TransformationACHIEVED
Over the years, the governance structure has evolved to build on the dedication of its members while maintaining energy and 
momentum through regular updates. The approach emphasizes co-creation, participation, and inclusivity, rooted in the 
belief that the transformation can only succeed if any member of ESSEC community feels that he or she is contributing to it.2 
governance bodies 
dedicated to SustainabilityA Governance that includes all ESSEC stakeholders
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 
including the Associate Dean 
for Strategy & SustainabilityADVISES
REPRESENTS
SUGGESTS
PRIORITIZES
ALLOCATES THE
"TOGETHER IMPACT FUND"DECIDES
SUGGEST
INITIATE
IMPLEMENT
EVALUATE
COMMUNICATE
AlumniCampus 
representativesProfessors 
& teachersStaff StudentsCONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE
5 collegesCenter Equality, 
Diversity & InclusionEnvironmental 
TransformationCenter for Social & 
Sustainable InnovationTOGETHER TEAMS
(37 ETP)Societal Impact 
Committee 
(Supervisory Board)

----- PAGE 5 -----

8 9
ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025 ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025
© Nicolas Launay
 Ambassadors for each department
In January 2024, the Environmental Transformation 
team launched its ambassadors network. Made up of 23 
volunteers from various ESSEC departments, it aims to 
facilitate the flow of information around sustainability 
transformation to foster the community’s engagement. A renewed Consultative Committee to 
better co-build ESSEC's strategy
Designed to bring together ESSEC’s stakeholders 
(alumni, students, faculty and staff) of all 
campuses, the COCON provides insights and 
suggestions to the Transition teams.
Renewed in 2023, the Committee is now working on a 
number of projects such as the creation of a toolbox for 
responsible events and the drafting of a guide on diversity 
and inclusion in the classroom. These initiatives will be 
rolled out by the end of the 2024/2025 school year.NEW ONGOING PROJECTS
TEACHING  
& EDUCATION
ESSEC’s mission is to “infuse leadership with meaning in order 
to prepare leaders ready to address contemporary economic, 
environmental and social challenges”. In doing so, it seeks to train 
talents capable of balancing commercial performance with 
environmental and social impact in organisations through 
tailored programs and disruptive knowledge. This commitment is 
reflected both with a minimum amount of content on sustainable 
and social transition across all programs, as well as specialized tracks 
to prepare students for careers in Sustainability. The ambitious goal 
is to empower all students to include those concepts in any of their 
managerial decisions.KEY FIGURES
100%
of students are  
trained in social and 
environmental challenges
130 H
of mandatory courses 
on sustainability in the 
Grande École program, and 
120 hours in the GBBA
30%
of Grande Ecole 
students specialized in 
sustainability topics  A fund to support impactful 
projects led by members 
of the ESSEC community
Launched in 2020, the Together Impact 
Fund is a fund managed by the Consultative 
Committee. Its goal is to finance projects 
led by ESSEC community members towards 
environmental and social transition. Its 
support can go up to €3,000 per project. Since 
its creation, it has supported nearly 25 
projects including, in 2023/2024, the launch 
of a sustainable products shop (“L’épicerie”, 
run by the NOISE ESSEC association) and a 
theatre performance in a Neighborhood House 
of Cergy for underprivileged audiences (a 
Comedia dell’ESSEC association project).
© Sarayut

----- PAGE 6 -----

10 11
ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025 ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025
 A pannel of sustainability specializations 
for initial training programs
Over the years, ESSEC has created a variety of specialized tracks that integrate 
social & environmental responsibility stakes to prepare students to participate in 
the transition of their organizations.
  The Chairs of the Master in Management: the Social Innovation Chair (created 
in 2002), the Leadership and Diversity Chair (2007) and 4 new chairs created 
between 2021 and 2022 (Ecological Transition, Global Circular Economy, 
Companies and the Common Good, and Shaping the Future of Finance) offering 
an in-depth understanding of those stakes. Other chairs, like Food Business 
Challenges, Philanthropy or Real Estate & Sustainability, round out this 
offering.
  The MSc in Sustainability Transformation, launched in 2022, trains in 
one-year individuals to guide companies in their sustainable transitions by 
combining academic expertise and professional experiences.
  The ACT Bachelor, launched in 2022 in collaboration with CY Cergy Paris 
Université, is a three-year multidisciplinary, hands-on program that prepares 
students to manage projects focused on environmental, civic, and societal 
transitions.
 A number of sustainability electives across all campuses
ESSEC offers a portfolio of over 70 electives centered around social and environmental issues, across all its campuses.
Many of those courses combine CSR issues with management, such as Responsible Marking in Rabat, ESG Investment 
& Sustainable Finance and Impact Investing in Cergy and Singapore, Climate Justice and Human Rights in Cergy, etc.
Others explore alternative economic models such as Circular Economy in Rabat, Social & Solidarity Economy and 
Collaborative Economy in Cergy, and since fall 2024, a de-growth course.
Local Sustainability is also at the centre of the Rabat and Singapore offerings, with respectively an 
entrepreneurial project focused on African development (Innovation for development) and a 3-month 
consulting mission in CSR for an Asian organization (Asian Strategy Consulting Project).
 A competency framework on sustainable 
development and social responsibility
ESSEC is an active member of the Board Conference for French Management Schools 
(CDEFM) and has co-led a committee of experts dedicated to the environmental 
and social transition for the past two years. In 2023, ESSEC works in collaboration 
with the Commission for the Evaluation of Management Training and Degrees 
(CEFDG) and other French Business Schools to develop a competency framework on 
Sustainable Development & Social Responsibility. It ensures that all bachelor’s and 
master’s students acquire the fundamentals of sustainability and guarantees 
that French business school degrees incorporate sustainability criteria.ACHIEVED
ONGOING PROJECTS A strengthened academic foundation around 
sustainability topics
ESSEC is committed to integrating sustainability topics 
systematically into all its core courses.
Since 2020, the 9 core management courses in the Grande École 
program have been revised to include these stakes, such as extra-
financial accounting and responsible marketing topics.
All cohorts in the Grande École, Global BBA, and Masters and 
Advanced Masters attend dedicated training on environmental 
challenges, diversity and inclusion, and social responsibility.
 A first sustainability SPECIALIZATION for the BBA program
For the 2024 academic year, ESSEC launched the Sustainability Track for the Global BBA, being the first specialization track of 
the program, which was a fully generalist curriculum until then. This track lasts two semesters, includes specialized courses, 
a sustainable-oriented internship, a final thesis, and the TASK™ certification. This significant development highlights 
ESSEC’s commitment to allowing students to become sustainability experts from the outset of their education.
 Teaching sustainability in executive education 
As Sustainability becomes unavoidable in business, ESSEC is strengthening its offer in this area.
For example, the new Executive Master in Sustainability Strategies is an online degree program designed to equip 
managers with the tools to implement sustainable strategies.
The Global MBA at ESSEC was also restructured around the three strategic topics of the school, thus, including a new 
Sustainability major.
 Climate School: an ambitious training 
program on transition
The courses offered by the Climate School, grounded in science and innovative 
teaching methods, aim to provide the fundamentals on environmental issues 
from two perspectives: understand and act. They are able since January 2025 for 
all second-year Global BBA students, through a hybrid in-person/online program 
created by ESSEC, with the goal of implementing it for 100% of the students.NEW
This core curriculum has been significantly enhanced for the start of the 2024 academic year. The seminar "Understand 
and Change the World" for the Grande École program has been expanded to include 10 hours of modules and a practical 
business case study on key issues such as planetary boundaries and the doughnut theory. Additionally, all students in 
the program completed the TASK™ certification from Sulitest IMPACT.
The 650 Masters' and Advanced Masters' students also participated in the second edition of ESSEC’s Social & Sustainable 
Innovation Day, collaborating on entrepreneurial challenges to provide creative solutions to societal issues.
Sustainable Development 
and Social Responsibility         
Competency Framework
July 2023

----- PAGE 7 -----

12 13
ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025 ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025
© Baona
RESEARCH
& INNOVATION
At ESSEC, research and innovation are driven by the aim of broadening 
debates, fostering critical thinking, and enabling informed decision-
making. Aware of its role in the environmental and social transitions, the 
school commits to actively enhancing the production, propagation and 
assimilation of knowledge to rethink economic models. Commitment is 
shown through cutting-edge academic research conducted by its faculty 
and chairs and a stronger bond between researchers and society.KEY FIGURES
60
professors are 
members of the 
Sustainability Guild33%
of ESSEC’s academic 
articles focus on 
Sustainability 
related themes The E&MISE Lab, with over a decade of experience, 
conducts action research projects and promotes a culture 
for assessing social and environmental performance.
 Antropia ESSEC, the first social accelerator founded by a 
business school, has equipped social entrepreneurs with the 
tools to maximize their impact and scale up since 2008. ESSEC Impact Unlimited supports all types of 
organizations in creating and managing impact-driven 
management systems.
 The center also fosters a community of changemakers 
both within and beyond the school through chairs like Social 
Innovation, Global Circular Economy, Ecological Transition, 
Food Business Challenges, and Philanthropy, as well as 
programs such as the MSc in Sustainability Transformation or 
ACT Bachelor.ACHIEVED
12
new professors 
with Sustainability 
expertise
Harvard BiGS-CoBS
Special Issue
Strategies  
for advancing the 
green transitionClimateChange
CEO
perspectives on 
industrial policyHow can large 
corporations become 
more sustainable?Money Talks: Banks 
can accelerate 
decarbonizationThe Circular Economy: 
Its challenges and 
impact across 
frontiers
 The Diffusion of ESSEC's Research: 
The Science and Society Day
ESSEC’s Research Center at the Cergy campus hosted the 2024 Science 
and Society Day edition. The event aims at sharing faculty work and 
knowledge and brings together ESSEC professors, policymakers, society 
representatives, senior executives, students, alumni, and citizens around 
the topic: "Companies and communities facing Transitions". The 
2025 edition focuses on the topic of Towards a Fairer World: Tackling 
Inequality in Housing & Education and Developing Effective Solutions. The Council on Business & Society 
Co-founded in 2011, ESSEC coordinates the Council on Business & Society (CoBS), which is 
dedicated to education and research in responsible leadership. Today, CoBS includes 12 
member schools across six continents in 16 countries that work on CSR and sustainability, 
publishing more than 100 research-based articles annually and producing four quarterly 
magazines. It brings together academics for workshops and professional development 
sessions at leading conferences and offers an annual CSR article competition for students. 
Since spring 2024, CoBS has offered an Advanced International Certificate in Responsible 
Business Practices. In October 2024, it co-published a special magazine with the Harvard 
Business School Institute for Business in Global Society titled Climate Change: Strategies to 
Advance the Green Transition.
 Sustainability Guild seminars
Created in 2022, ESSEC’s Sustainability Guild gathers around sixty faculty and research members committed to social and 
environmental issues. They participate in regular meetings and transdisciplinary initiatives. In the 2023/2024 academic year, 
three research seminars hosted international experts: Caroline Flammer (Columbia University) on environmental finance, 
Marya Besharov (Saïd Business School) on social entrepreneurship and Rodrigo Canales (Boston University) for advanced 
research on sustainability. Centre for Social and Ecological Innovation
Launched in 2023, ESSEC’s Centre for Social and Ecological Innovation is dedicated to the development of concrete initiatives 
supporting social and environmental transitions:

----- PAGE 8 -----

14 15
ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025 ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025
© Nicolas Launay
ONGOING PROJECTS ENVIRONMENT
ESSEC is dedicated to achieving environmental excellence across its 
campuses while carefully considering planetary boundaries. Following 
a comprehensive greenhouse gas emissions audit in 2018, the school 
updates its carbon footprint annually to identify its primary sources 
of emissions throughout its value chain. This assessment allowed the 
school to define its strategic priorities to implement its carbon 
strategy. Some roadmaps are implemented step by step on student 
and professional mobility, energy consumption, catering services, 
waste management, and more. At the same time, ESSEC is designing 
campuses that respect biodiversity while fostering community 
engagement among students and staff.KEY FIGURES
Waste recycling rate:  
Increase by
1.9X
in 23/24 VS 18/19NEW
 A stronger Faculty on Sustainability topics
ESSEC strengthened its faculty by adding twelve new sustainability specialists in 
economics, finance, marketing, and strategy, further enhancing its research talents.
Furthermore, the school has implemented mechanisms to help and encourage researchers 
to focus on these key topics, including dedicated research project grants.
La philanthropie  
face aux déﬁs  
environnementaux : 
enjeux et perspectives  
pour une transition juste
N°3 - 11/2024
 The E&MISE Lab
The Laboratory is working on an action research project with the Mutuelle 
Sociale Agricole (MSA) on the food resilience of rural areas and the impact 
of 35 integration projects on territorial dynamics at the level of the 
inhabitants, but also of the socio-economic actors and communities. Action research in ESSEC chairs 
and ACADEMIC PUBLICATIONS
ESSEC is very active in its research on Sustainability.
The chairs are leading numerous action-research projects in collaboration 
with their partners. For instance, in January 2023, the Urban Economics 
Chair published a report on regional governance of ecological transitions 
in partnership with Léonard (Vinci Group’s incubator). In November 2024, the 
Philanthropy Chair released a study on philanthropy and fair transitions, 
co-written by researcher Anne Monier and the Fondation de France.
In addition, Professors Arijit Chatterjee and Bernard 
Leca were recently recognized by the Financial Times 
for their research on child malnutrition. 
Similarly, the Academy of Management Journal published an 
article written by Anne-Claire Pache (ESSEC), Julie Battilana, and 
Channing Spencer (Harvard Business School) on the role of governance 
in hybrid organizations (with economic and social missions) 
which obtained the SYNTEC prize of the best CSR article.Carbon footprint 
per student
-10%
in 23/24 VS 18/19
-30%
Reduction in  
waste volume
in 23/24 VS 18/19

----- PAGE 9 -----

16 17
ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025 ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025 An optimized waste management
ESSEC continues to reduce and better manage 
waste through focused initiatives:
  In 2021, it introduced a six-stream collection station for 
sorting and recycling and eliminated plastic bottles.
  In 2023, it standardized washable cups for coffee machines.
  In 2024, it transitioned student dining services to 
reusable containers and cutlery to reduce waste.
The school managed to decrease the volume of waste per user 
from 17 kg in 2022/2023 to 11 kg in 2023/2024 and improve the 
recycling rate from 33% in 2022/2023 to 40% in 2023/2024.
 Support for more responsible student mobility
With 40% of ESSEC’s carbon footprint linked to student trips for internships, exchanges, and study trips, reducing the 
impact of student mobility is essential. To address this, the school acts through: 
  Sustainable Mobility Vouchers are offered to students opting for low-carbon transport modes (train, 
bus, carpooling) for their internships and exchange. In 2023/2024, 45 students received funding.
  The “Reinvent Your Mobility” Competition, in collaboration with the student association NOISE, 
rewards innovative sustainable mobility projects. In 2024, two students travelled across 18 European 
countries without flying, surveying residents’ perceptions of Europe. Projects can receive up to 
€2,000 in funding from Together and be valorized on ESSEC’s communication channels.
  For short study trips, low-carbon travel option and European destinations are now the rule, 
and they benefit from better funding in the case of Masters and Advanced Masters.ACHIEVED NEW
 Raising awareness of 
environmental and climate issues
ESSEC raises daily awareness of sustainable transition 
issues within its community through various initiatives:
  At the Cergy campus, four permanent exhibitions 
launched in fall 2022 address crucial topics 
such as sustainable food, energy, responsible 
digital practices, and sustainable mobility.
  Creative projects, such as the Fred and Sally comic, 
illustrated by ESSEC’s PAO team, invite readers to 
explore concepts like carbon footprint and the doughnut 
theory, while the podcast “La Balade du Moineau”, 
produced in collaboration with the Cergy-Pontoise 
agglomeration and CY Cergy Paris Université, offers 
audio-guided tours exploring Cergy’s biodiversity.
  Every year, the four "ESSEC Transition Talks" 
explore how organisations reinvent themselves 
to face environmental and social challenges. A reduced digital footprint
Conscious of the environmental impact of its digital 
practices, ESSEC has implemented concrete actions 
to reduce it. Since 2024, it has optimised its use of 
cloud storage, reducing it from 550 TB to 400 TB.
The new website has also been redesigned to be less 
energy-intensive. Additionally, workshops are provided 
for staff and students through the K-Lab to promote 
responsible digital practices (email management, 
streamlined storage solutions, and low-tech tools).
 A more sustainable catering offer
In 2024, ESSEC transformed its Cergy campus 
catering services to enhance taste and sustainability. 
This ecological transition is built around ambitious 
contractual objectives and annual audits for the 
Perma label. It includes improving procurement quality 
and introducing a vegetarian meal option at a reduced 
price, made possible by a specific contribution from the 
school. Zero-waste practices are also a priority focus area.
 CERGY campus in perpetual renewal
The new ESSEC campus fully addresses environmental challenges. Reducing 
its carbon footprint is the priority, with the installation of charging 
stations for electric cars in the campus parking lots and 1,500 m² of 
photovoltaic panels on roofs providing the campus with renewable energy 
since November 2024 thanks to a partnership with the local cooperative 
O'Watt Citoyen. A Building Management System has been implemented 
to optimize energy consumption by regulating heating, air conditioning, 
and lighting. Following the end of the construction, the plan initiated in 
spring 2022 on biodiversity and the use of outdoor spaces will resume.
 Communicating the carbon footprint 
of students  mobility
Because the transition to more sustainable mobility requires clear 
communication with students, ESSEC is developing tools to inform 
and guide them. In addition to raising awareness about the Sustainable 
Mobility scholarship, the school provides students with information 
on the carbon footprint associated with travelling for their exchange. 
Furthermore, a tool currently under development will allow students to 
know their individual carbon footprint based on their academic travels.
1/ FOOD FOR PLEASURE
•  Good products, well cooked and well 
presented.
•  A varied offer to suit all tastes and 
cultures.
•  Homemade.
2/ FOOD FOR HEALTH
•  Nutritional balance.
•  Towards a zero-additive food.
•  Just enough salt/sugar/fat.
3/ ENVIRONMENTALL Y FRIENDL Y 
PRODUCTS
•  Farming practices with low. 
environmental impact.
•  Seasonal and locally produced food
•  Vegetarian cooking in the spotlight!4/ A HUMAN-FRIENDL Y OFFER
•  Farmers paid a fair price.
•  Fair trade products.
•  A diverse catering team able to adapt 
to our different audiences.
•  An offer that is financially accessible 
to all.
5/ TOWARDS ZERO WASTE
•  Towards zero food waste.
•  A minimum of disposable containers.
6/ GOOD INFORMATION
•  Transparency on the origin and 
characteristics of products.
•  Support for changing practices.
7/ AN OFFER THAT EVOL VES WITH 
USAGE
•  The voice of users: regular surveys on 
satisfaction and expectations.ESSEC'S SUSTAINABLE FOOD CHARTER
FOOD THAT AIMS TO MAXIMISE PLEASURE AND HEAL TH, WHILE 
RESPECTING THE PLANET AND HUMANS, FROM FIELD TO PLATE.© ESSEC Business School - 1283060922.
ONGOING PROJECTS

----- PAGE 10 -----

18 19
ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025 ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025
SOCIAL POLICY & 
LOCAL ROOTING
ESSEC shows its commitment to a fairer and more inclusive 
society through an ambitious social and local policy.
As a school and human organization, ESSEC trains, educates and 
fights against all forms of discrimination. Its “Diversity and 
Inclusion” plan portrays it by strengthening initiatives addressing 
disability policies, gender equality, and its Respect of Others Charter.
Rooted in its communities—Cergy-Pontoise, Singapore, 
and Rabat—ESSEC fully engages with public actors, 
organizations, and companies to support their transformation 
toward an inclusive and sustainable model.KEY FIGURES
100%
of ESSEC students  
engaged with the 
Diversity Fresco
89/100
gender equality 
score in 2024ACHIEVED
 Strong local roots for campuses
  In Cergy, the school collaborates with local public actors to accelerate the 
ecological and social transition of the territory. ESSEC has been a signatory 
of the territorial commitment charter of the Cergy-Pontoise Urban 
Community since June 2023. Furthermore, Antropia ESSEC is leading the 
"Expérimentation Val-d'Oise" program for the Departmental Council, 
with the aim of supporting the establishment of social enterprises that 
meet the territory's priority social needs (for 2025: social isolation of senior 
citizens and sustainable food). To be noted: 30% of the projects supported 
by Antropia since 2008 claim to have an impact on the Val-d'Oise.
  At ESSEC Rabat, the school partners with the prestigious Innovation and 
Excellence Lalla Meryem Prize, an annual award for entrepreneurial projects 
by women from rural and peri-urban areas in Morocco (60 projects in 2023/2024).
  At ESSEC APAC, the school continues strengthening its partnership with the 
National Volunteer and Philanthropic Centre by dedicating 2,000 volunteer 
hours involving staff, faculty, and alumni during the new academic year.
 A process to raise awareness and equip 
the faculty and student communities
Throughout the 2023/2024 academic year, working groups on inclusion and 
interculturality were offered to the faculty to gather feedback, raise awareness, 
and provide tools. A new reporting process has also been implemented, enabling 
students to notify the school of transphobic, sexist, or racist comments, which 
may result in sanctions, including non-renewal of the contract.
For the students, the awareness program on respect has been enhanced in the 
Grande École and Master’s programs as of September 2024 and will soon extend to 
the BBA program. Some modules were added in January on preventing violence in 
party settings and a session at the end of the year focusing on discrimination and 
respect, just before the internship.350+
students with disabilities 
supported by the 
HandiCapacités mission 
(accommodations, 
scholarships, etc.) Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Center
With 20 years of commitment, the Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion Center at 
ESSEC embodies the school’s ambition of promoting equal opportunity and diversity 
within its community. With a team of 16 members, the Center implements actions of 
the “Diversity and Inclusion” Action Plan, focusing on recruitment, awareness, training, 
and research to create an inclusive campus that reflects a fair and ambitious shift.
Since March 2024, the Center has been restructured around 5 poles: 1. Equal Opportunities, 2. Partnerships and 
Deployment of the Diversity Fresco, 3. Diversity & Inclusion Transformation, 4. Respect for Others, 5. Disability Mission.
For more than 20 years, ESSEC has been pursuing a very proactive social openness policy based on actions both before 
and during the course of study. Thus, the CAP ESSEC program and the system of the Double Oral Call enable the school to 
welcome more scholarship holders among its students every year. 
The commitments in terms of financing (exemptions from tuition fees, apprenticeships, sliding scale fees for the BDE, etc.) 
are another powerful lever of this policy. 
Finally, the support provided to scholarship holders during their studies (buddy system, alumni mentoring, etc.) is a real 
guarantee of equal opportunities for all, once they have entered ESSEC!
© Nicolas LaunayNEW

----- PAGE 11 -----

20 21
ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025 ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025ONGOING PROJECTS
1993
1986
1937
19292024
20032020
2002200820212022Launch of the GBBA Sustainability 
Track and the Executive Master 
in Strategies for Sustainability; 
signature of “L'autre Cercle” charter.
MILESTONES IN ESSEC'S COMMITMENT
 PQPM: integration of citizenship , 
commitment and transition issues
Each year, ESSEC’s equal opportunity programs support 
360 middle and high school students from the 
community, including the underprivileged (PQPM) 
and disabled (PHARES), helping them consider higher 
education opportunities based on their potential.
Since September 2024, PQPM has worked to incorporate 
new items into its sessions, including civic engagement, 
ecological transition, and gender-based and 
sexual violence. This enhanced program trains 
mentors and raises young participants’ awareness of 
today’s challenges, encouraging them to participate 
in actions promoting inclusion and sustainability.
PENSER LE MANAGEMENT DE DEMAIN 
POUR L’ENTREPRISE DU FUTUR
UNE GRANDE ÉCOLE : POURQUOI PAS MOI ? est
un programme d’égalité des chances dans l’accès aux études 
supérieures porté par le Centre Égalité Diversité et Inclusion de 
l’ESSEC depuis 2002. Il permet à des collégiens issus de milieu 
populaire de préparer leur entrée au lycée puis dans les études 
supérieures en développant les compétences qui y sont attendues.UNE GRANDE ÉCOLE : 
POURQUOI PAS MOI ?
COLLÈGE
 A commitment charter with 
l'Autre Cercle on LGBT+ rights
During Pride Month in  June 2024, ESSEC signed the charter 
of L’Autre Cercle to promote LGBT+ diversity, joining 250 
other organizations. This charter is accompanied by a three-
year plan built around five main areas, 22 objectives, and 
concrete actions. These include inclusive communication, 
adapted administrative processes (use of preferred names, 
recognition of a third gender), raising awareness on LGBT+ 
issues, improving campus facilities, and providing active 
support to the LGBT+ community via a dedicated platform. ESSECare: the new professional well-being program
Launched in 2023, the ESSECare program is a new commitment milestone 
for employee well-being. It offers personalized, on-demand support on 
aspects such as work purpose, mental & physical health, and workplace 
relationships. The program also includes tools such as well-being 
assessments, personalized advice, and therapy or coaching sessions. 
Workshops, conferences, and competitions complete the program, fostering 
collective engagement.
 A junior version of the diversity fresco
Co-created in 2021 by ESSEC and Belugames, the Diversity 
Fresco is inspired by the Climate Fresco. It raises awareness 
of workplace discrimination and inclusion issues, 
encouraging participants to reflect collectively on these 
topics. Over 30,000 individuals have participated, and 
over 200 companies have implemented it.
To reach and engage a broader audience, a junior version 
is currently under development, targeting young people 
aged 15 to 16. Introduction of the first business ethics 
course: ESSEC's humanist ambition is 
reflected in the teaching methods used 
and in the values transmitted to students.Launch of the first student scholarships: 
this is the beginning of a support 
policy for the least privileged students, 
enabling the school to welcome 23% 
of scholarship holders in 2024.Creation of the Urban Economics 
Chair, a pioneer program in the use of 
management to serve the general interest 
and take into account territorial issues.First management school to offer 
apprenticeships to students, an option 
chosen by 30% of them in 2022.Launch of ESSEC's ecological 
and social transition strategy 
“Together”, aimed at transforming 
the school's practices in depth.Receive the “DD&RS label”, deployment 
of the Diversity Fresco, launch of the 
Bachelor ACT with CY Cergy Paris 
Université and launch of the MSc 
in Sustainability Transformation.
Launch of the equal opportunity 
program "Une grande école: pourquoi 
pas moi?" (A top business school – 
why not for me?) aimed at high school 
students from modest backgrounds: 
60,000 young people have already 
benefited from ESSEC's programs.Creation of 4 new chairs 
on Sustainability stakes.
Creation of the Innovation and Social 
Entrepreneurship Chair to train 
students about how organizations 
can have a social impact.Creation of the social 
accelerator Antropia ESSEC.
LE NOUVEA U PROGRAMME
bien-être A U TRA V AIL DE L ’ES SEC
LA DEMARCPo36E ES SECar e rePo3UPo2lPo34e Po34Po41r Po33 Po51rPo46nPo42 Po34 Po3UrinPo37iPo3UePo34
L ’ES SEC met Po6e disposition des salariés un pr ogr amme inno v ant aPo55n 
d’ agir en prév ention et de répondr e aux besoins e xprimés des salariés.
Individuel et collectif
Un soutien individuel r enfor cé, 
disponible à t out moment.
Des inter v entions collectiv es 
pour cr éer des moments d’échange. Pr of essionnel et personnel
Cadr e pr of essionnel pour amélior er
le quotidien des collabor ateurs.
A v ec la possibilité d’ aller plus loin sur 
des thématiques plus personnelles.
Modulable et sur mesur e
A ccompagnement à la car te, 
chaque collabor ateur compose son 
p ro g r amme bien -êtr e comme sur un 
par cours appr enant ESSEC .A mélior ation continue
Aller plus loin dans la 
compr éhension des besoins des 
salariés. V olonté d’agir sur les le viers 
du bien -êtr e dans la dur ée 

.

----- PAGE 12 -----

22 23
ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025 ESSEC BUSINESS SCHOOL - SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - 2025
In many ways, our partnership with 
ESSEC is enriching for the 
Cergy-Pontoise urban area. 
Achieving a successful regional 
transition requires breaking down 
barriers and strengthening 
cooperation between institutions 
and the public and private sectors. 
ESSEC embraces this principle wholeheartedly, 
collaborating in many areas, such as:
- The Eco Citizen Boost project (in collaboration with 
the Bleu Blanc Zèbre association) that connects 
local associations and residents—including ESSEC 
students—to develop projects, partnerships, and 
exchanges with CYU and the city of Cergy.  
- With Antropia ESSEC, we explore 
and structure actions for the circular 
economy based on local needs.
This partnership also allows us to exchange best 
practices, methodologies, and organizational 
insights on our carbon footprint assessments, 
responsible purchasing, green budgets, water 
management, catering services, and more.
Guillaume QUEVAREC,
Head of Sustainable Transition projects 
Urban Community of Cergy-Pontoise
We have completely transformed 
the course offerings at ESSEC to 
consider the challenges of 
environmental and social transition. 
We continue to go further, 
introducing new themes, fostering 
critical thinking among our 
students, and sharing the latest 
research and practices on social and environmental 
transition.
For instance, we have introduced a degrowth 
course. This interdisciplinary course, taught 
by eight different ESSEC professors and 
researchers, encourages students to reflect 
on the concepts of growth and degrowth, the 
limitations of green growth, consumer culture, 
degrowth social movements, impact-driven 
businesses, as well as the geopolitical challenges 
of green growth and food sufficiency.
Delphine DION,
Marketing Professor & Researcher on 
sustainability, member of the COCON‘‘
Working at a school where 
environmental and social transition 
are priorities is a privilege!
These topics are key, yet we often 
find that they aren’t given the 
attention they deserve during 
conversations. Lack of time, lack of 
support…
At ESSEC, we have passionate professionals bursting 
with ideas who offer countless opportunities.
Whatever your role or availability, you can do 
something meaningful for this crucial transition.
We don’t know what the future holds, but we do 
know who will shape it. Let’s not be fatalists or give 
up; everyone’s contribution has an impact. Let’s 
take advantage of this dynamic and privileged 
environment to act. Attend conferences and enrol 
in training sessions—it’s an opportunity to learn 
incredible things, meet inspiring people, and deepen 
your commitment. It’s a virtuous circle.
Denis POULAIN,
Head of the CFA,  
Together Ambassador and member of the COCON
ESSEC is one of the leading Grandes 
Écoles in ecological and social 
transition. Sustainable development 
is central to its programs and 
activities. Still, it also actively 
contributes to creating a desirable 
future for younger generations. I 
can see this commitment at the 
service of the collective and of Sustainability in the 
context of the CDEFM. For example, ESSEC teams 
drafted the Sustainable Development & Social 
Responsibility competency framework, engaged in 
ministerial meetings and events on sustainability, 
and co-leads the expert committee dedicated to this 
subject, ensuring that all schools, regardless of their 
level of improvement, can commit to sustainability 
as well.
Through these actions and initiatives, ESSEC 
plays an essential role in environmental and 
social transition in higher education and 
serves as a model for other institutions.
Françoise GROT,
General Secretary of the CDEFM (Conference 
of Boards of French Management Schools)‘‘© Sezer Ozger
As a student, I think ESSEC’s 
environmental and social transition 
approach is comprehensive. I have 
observed and participated in 
various Together initiatives 
throughout my studies, including 
the PQPM equal opportunity 
program, for which I served as a 
mentor; local initiatives; and green mobility 
scholarships, a crucial aspect given the emissions of 
international student travel.
The school also raises awareness through the 
students in charge of CSR topics within student 
associations whom the school encourage for 
good practices. It’s an ongoing process; getting 
the association offices on board will take time.
Social and environmental dimensions are 
also being integrated into core management 
courses, such as accounting. While this effort 
is ongoing, it must be further generalized.
Alice VOLOSINSKI,
Student and member of the COCON
ESSEC was ahead of most other 
schools regarding environmental 
and social issues. This approach 
aligns with the rooted convictions of 
the school’s history. The 
background work, led in particular 
by ESSEC Together for almost five 
years, coordinates the school’s 
leadership, faculty, students, alumni, and key local 
stakeholders’ efforts to transform the school across 
multiple dimensions.
These efforts are paying off through integrating 
sustainability into academic programs, changes 
in students’ behaviours, the progress in creating 
a more sustainable campus, which is already well 
underway, and the fundamental work of local 
social integration. This long-term approach relies 
on dedicated and highly competent teams who 
share a genuine determination to drive change.
Amaury KLOSSA,  
ESSEC 1998, Partner - Head of Energy & Utility 
Practiceat Arthur D. Little,  
member of the COCON‘‘
‘‘TESTIMONIES‘‘
‘‘

----- PAGE 13 -----

ESSEC Business School
3 avenue Bernard-Hirsch
CS 50105 Cergy
95021 Cergy-Pontoise Cedex
France
Tel. +33 (0)1 34 43 30 00
www.essec.edu
ESSEC Executive Education
CNIT BP 230
92053 Paris-La Défense
France
Tel. +33 (0)1 46 92 49 00
www.executive-education.essec.edu
ESSEC Asia-Paciﬁ  c
5 Nepal Park
Singapore 139408
Tel. +65 6884 9780
www.essec.edu/asia
ESSEC | CPE Registration number 200511927D 
Period of registration: 30 June 2023 - 29 June 2029 
Committee of Private Education (CPE) is part of SkillsFuture Singapore (SSG)
ESSEC Africa
Plage des Nations - Golf City
Route de Kénitra - Sidi Bouknadel (Rabat-Salé)
Morocco
Tel. +212 (0)5 37 82 40 00
www.essec.edu
The content of this brochure is intended for 
informational purpose only, is subject to 
modiﬁ  cation and is not legally binding.
© ESSEC Business School - 1486270525 - Photo: © Iuliia_photographer.