
----- PAGE 1 -----



----- PAGE 2 -----

Contents
Enabling 
everyone to unleash their potential
Responsible and ethical businessForeword from group presidentIntroducing Galileo Global Education
Ensuring 
teaching and academic excellence
Looking 
ahead AppendixHow we measure impact
Transforming 
society and lives
04
0701
192
51294
62 644315020508 090306

----- PAGE 3 -----

2 Galileo Global Education
Foreword01

----- PAGE 4 -----

3 Galileo Global EducationForeword
ForewordA higher education and vocational training 
institution carries an immense social responsibility by its very nature and raison d’être. How we transmit and foster knowledge and skills profoundly impacts the lives of learners and the societies in which they operate. Higher education empowers individuals and provides the skills that nations need to thrive.
At Galileo Global Education (GGE), our primary 
mission is to prepare individuals for the job market, fostering employability in fields that urgently need qualified professionals. We develop education solutions that respond to the needs of sectors where shortages exist, such as healthcare, where we are equipping a new generation of professionals to meet the growing demands of the industry. By aligning our offerings with the current and future job market, we ensure our graduates are ready to contribute meaningfully to society.
Our strong focus on employability extends beyond 
the development of skills — it is about putting people first. We believe learners are at the heart of everything we do, and their success is our greatest priority. The human aspect of our work drives us to create environments where individuals can grow personally and professionally in inclusive and safe spaces that nurture their potential.
— Marc-François Mignot-Mahon, GGE Group PresidentThis past year presented valuable growth opportunities, especially in the French market, where we successfully strengthened our operations by enhancing our focus on the commercial funnel and our entrepreneurship spirit and by launching of a meaningful training programme for school directors: the Academy. 
At the core of our operations is the principle 
of impact. Our initiatives go beyond economic growth; they focus on making a difference in the lives of learners, the broader education sector and the environments in which we operate, as well as society as a whole. The partnerships we have forged with associations, such as those that support disadvantaged and vulnerable young people, are doubly beneficial: they strengthen our social commitment by opening up our schools to specific low-income and at risk groups, owing to tuition-free programs for youth needing special financial support. Additionally, such partnerships help introduce our schools and training programs to other young people who might not know them. As such, we believe that sustainability and economic performance can thrive mutually. By integrating sustainability into our core activities and serving the broader public interest, we demonstrate that achieving social impact and economic value without compromise is possible.

----- PAGE 5 -----

4 Galileo Global EducationIntroducing Galileo 
Global Education02

----- PAGE 6 -----

5 Galileo Global EducationIntroducing Galileo Global Education Who we are
Our integrated higher 
education platformIn line with our values, our 
learners benefit from a unique blend of technical and soft skills, diverse training programmes, and dedicated support. We foster a community that encourages open dialogue, idea promotion, and leadership, ensuring graduates are well-prepared for the global job market and entrepreneurial ventures. 
Our solid commitment to all 
our stakeholders drives us to continually strive for the best outcomes for our learners, schools, teachers, employees, society, and the environment. 
At GGE, we often discuss our integrated higher education platform—a way of working that addresses key trends such as lifelong skills development, demographic shifts, and the rising demand for skilled workers in health and tech. As new technologies reshape learning and work, we strive for innovative education methods to remain relevant.Galileo Global Education (GGE) is the world leader in private higher education. Our network of 63 schools operates across 116 campuses in 19 countries, educating some 300,000 learners. We offer diverse subjects, including applied arts, digital studies, management, and health, through various training modalities such as on-site, online-only, and hybrid courses that combine online and on-campus learning.
GGE was founded in 2011 to create a unique network of higher 
education institutions, especially in high-demand and underserved fields. It began with acquiring Istituto Marangoni, a renowned Italian school in fashion, design, and the arts. Named after Galileo Galilei, Italian astronomer, physicist, and mathematician, the GGE Group embodies a spirit of innovation, aiming to transform education through interdisciplinary approaches and global reach. Since GGE’s inception, we have expanded rapidly through 37 strategic acquisitions and advancements.Our vision is to transform the world of education and training by innovating and hybridising disciplines and pedagogies across our schools and geographies.
Our DNA is built on the 
qualities of innovation and entrepreneurship. Our values are rooted in care, transparency, and a commitment to upholding the highest standards. Our mission is to enable everyone, regardless of their starting point, to unleash their potential and boost their employability through skills education.
Our platform uniquely combines cutting-edge educational content with advanced learning management systems, enabling schools in our ecosystem to achieve operational and commercial success while offering top-notch learning opportunities. 
Moreover, our approach ensures our schools maintain 
flexibility and transparency, achieved through our four key pillars or focus areas: learner experience, sales & marketing, finance, and human resources, all supported by robust IT and IS teams.
Additionally, we view our school directors as educational 
entrepreneurs; they are empowered to design unique blueprints for their institutions within a supportive framework, with investment provided for long-term success. Directors are encouraged to adapt their 
educational strategies to meet the needs of their job markets. Our strategy emphasises continuous innovation and knowledge sharing among network members to enhance operational performance and pedagogy.
In addition, our schools promote international student 
and faculty exchanges, enriching learning experiences and preparing learners for employment through close collaboration with industry partners. Because of our flexibility, our schools rapidly adapt to emerging skills gaps, offering professional certifications and job market-aligned curricula.
At GGE, we are committed to expanding access to 
education, boosting global skills and employability, and ensuring opportunities for underserved populations, all while striving for continuous growth.

----- PAGE 7 -----

Enrolled 
students in 2023-24European leader with global ambitionProfile of our Students
GGE EmployeesGender split of students300,000 Students
Country of origin of one 
or more Galileo school
Country with a branch 
of Galileo schoolsGGE today

----- PAGE 8 -----

7 Galileo Global EducationIntroducing Galileo Global EducationUpholding the highest 
standards of business ethics and integrity   
Sustained organisational
growthThis year, we are pleased to announce the appointment 
of Charlotte Campanella as CEO for GGE France, our Business Unit that encompasses all our ‘on-site’ schools in France, effective 1st June 2024. In this role, she will lead GGE France and focus on revitalising sales and marketing, transforming operations for greater efficiency, and driving innovation to create new opportunities that enhance our learners’ employability. Additionally, Charlotte will support the development of new schools joining our network and the transformation of key institutions, such as the Paris School of Business and emlyon Business School.At GGE, we are committed to the highest standards of ethics, integrity, and transparency. We strive to meet these high standards across all our operations and in all interactions with our stakeholders, including learners, colleagues, educators, regulators, public authorities, collaborators, and business partners. Our core ethical principles cover all aspects of responsible corporate citizenship, and we always aim for the highest possible standards in our business conduct. In addition, each of our GGE regional operating units — schools and offices in regions across the globe — is expected to implement its own code of conduct and relevant policies and procedures that reflect applicable national laws and regulations, operational circumstances, and local cultural and social norms.
GGE also welcomed new talents, including a Strategy Director, a Regional Director for Emerging Markets covering Latin America and Africa, and a Chief Revenue Officer.
Over the last year, we are pleased to welcome three 
new institutions to our network:
ASSIFEP (Association de Formation et d’Insertion  
Professionnelle) in north of FranceLIS (The London Interdisciplinary School) in LondonISV (L’Institut Supérieur du Vin) in Montpellier, France.

----- PAGE 9 -----

8 Galileo Global EducationIntroducing Galileo Global EducationOur Impact Strategy
In 2023-2024, our impact strategy at GGE centred around two 
key themes: sustainability and social impact. We are committed to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly in reducing our carbon footprint and enhancing Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) initiatives. This involves comprehensive KPI tracking and data collection from various stakeholders, ensuring a thorough report of our diverse educational landscape, which includes business, arts, design, medical schools, and universities across physical, online, and hybrid models. 
On the social impact front, GGE France has been extensively involved 
in various initiatives to help learners overcome social or financial barriers — read more about this in chapter 4 of this report.In our complex economic and regulatory environment, we meticulously manage operational risks across the Group.
At the same time, independence and entrepreneurial spirit remain central to our 
business. School directors should be autonomous and accountable, aligning with our platform. Each school within our ecosystem has its own governance arrangements to ensure academic rigour, effective management of its impact strategy, and appropriate representation of learners’ interests.
While this decentralised model encourages flexibility and independence, it also requires 
closer alignment between operations and leadership to maintain cohesion, especially within the French business unit. Strengthening this link enables us to keep schools at the heart of our strategy, ensuring a stronger connection with students and their needs. By fostering collaboration between school leadership and the broader organisation, we can ensure student-centric and operationally sound decisions.
Furthermore, the executive committee leads ESG and impact governance, reporting 
directly to the board comprising independent members and shareholders. The audit and risk committee, the highest authority on ESG matters, oversees all risk and impact issues. Advancement reports are submitted annually, maintaining a direct link to the board. Additionally, the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operations Officer serve as executive sponsors of the impact strategy, supported by a two-person team at the Corporate Service level for implementation. We are pleased to say that in 2024, we also strengthened our corporate teams to ensure improved compliance and good governance by hiring an internal auditor. 
Added to the above governance structure, each school has an impact champion 
appointed by its managing director, contributing to a network of 30 champions across the Group. In some regions, there is one champion for all schools, while in others, there can be multiple champions per school, which demonstrates the depth of our ESG efforts. Our impact champions are responsible for all sustainability efforts at their respective school, ESG initiatives and projects, and data collection and management. We discuss our impact champions later in chapter 2 of the report. 
The governance structure outlined earlier, together with the efforts of our impact 
champions, ensures that ESG topics are prioritised and integrated at every level of the organisation.More specifically, our approach to impact balances school independence with unified corporate support, fostering each institution’s autonomy while enhancing sustainability and social impact. Solid governance and risk management practices support these efforts, which are crucial for accreditation and ranking purposes. We will return to the practices in chapter 7 of this report.  Impact governance

----- PAGE 10 -----

Galileo Global EducationIntroducing Galileo Global Education9
Contributing to the 
UN Sustainable Development Goals
Towards CSRD 
Compliance The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are 
central to the global agenda for Sustainable Development. Adopted in 2015, the SDGs provide a blueprint for an inclusive, sustainable, and resilient future by 2030. The 17 SDGs encompass sustainable development’s social, economic, and environmental dimensions.As an educational group, GGE is committed to SDG 4: “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.” We are dedicated to supporting all learners and equipping them for success in their educational programmes and studies.
We also contribute to the following SDGs:
As part of our commitment to transparency, accountability, and 
sustainability, GGE is actively working towards compliance with the European Union’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD). The CSRD is a mandatory regulation that applies to companies within the European Union meeting certain criteria, such as size, turnover, or number of employees. As GGE meets these criteria, we are legally obligated to submit sustainability reports per the directive, with our first mandatory report due by the end of 2026. In the meantime, we are preparing to meet all CSRD standards.We began our CSRD journey in early 2024 by appointing a consultancy. We have also engaged key stakeholders and completed a double materiality assessment to ensure our sustainability reporting reflects their priorities. Additionally, we have conducted a gap analysis to identify areas for improvement. In October 2025, we will conduct a trial run of our sustainability report to assess our readiness and make any necessary adjustments before the final submission in 2026, which will report on our performance in the academic year 2025-2026.CSRD reporting represents a significant shift for GGE. Previously, we voluntarily produced sustainability reports; now, with CSRD regulations, we must adhere to strict guidelines. We know our results are more critical than ever, and we are approaching this with the seriousness it deserves. We aim to deliver high-quality results that demonstrate this commitment. Moreover, our Sustainability Statements — a concise declaration of our commitment to sustainable practices and goals related to ESG issues — will be audited by external green auditors to ensure accuracy and compliance with the highest standards.Over the past year, we also began evaluating which sustainability topics are material and, therefore, most important to our business. We conducted a materiality assessment for each topic, assessing its relevance, determining whether it posed a risk or offered an opportunity, and scoring it accordingly. This process allows us to focus our efforts and resources on the most crucial areas, ensuring our success and sustainability.

----- PAGE 11 -----

10 Galileo Global EducationIntroducing Galileo Global EducationStakeholder analysis and 
engagement 
At GGE, stakeholder analysis and engagement are vital for aligning 
our sustainability strategies with the needs and values of diverse groups and forming a central part of the CSRD methodology. We have been working hard to ensure this. We do this by identifying key stakeholders, such as learners, employees, and suppliers, and consulting them through surveys, interviews, workshops, and focus groups. By gathering insights into their ESG concerns, expectations, and suggestions, we can identify key areas for consideration.We then integrate this feedback into our impact strategy, ensuring our actions are responsive to stakeholder priorities. This approach strengthens relationships, enhances transparency, and improves the effectiveness of our efforts. Additionally, it helps us identify potential risks and opportunities early, supporting long-term success and resilience.Furthermore, this process is continuous, and we regularly engage all stakeholders, including shareholders, the executive team, school management, learners, suppliers, and employees, to ensure consensus on our CSRD approach and more globally, our impact practice. These foundational steps are crucial for successfully implementing the CSRD for GGE.

----- PAGE 12 -----

Galileo Global EducationIntroducing Galileo Global Education11Measuring our impact 
with data
Enhancing KPI accuracyWe provide our learners with skills and knowledge to prosper, regardless 
of their starting point, background, and goals. We endeavour to provide accessible, safe, and healthy learning environments so all our learners can thrive. Enabling everyone to unleash their potential
We aim to transform the world of education and training through innovation and hybridisation of disciplines, pedagogies, schools, and geographies. Thanks to the outstanding quality of education we provide, all our learners leave our schools equipped with cutting-edge knowledge, skills, and capabilities – and ready for employment and/or entrepreneurship.
Enhancing the student experience
We know our learners want to make a positive impact on our world. We teach them the skills and competencies they and society urgently need to address critical societal and environmental challenges. Transforming society and lives
Our governance and risk management policies ensure we always conduct our business to the highest possible standards. Responsible and ethical businessOur Impact Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) outlined below reflect the performance of our ESG activities. These KPIs are informed by key sustainability regulations, including the CSRD and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and were created with input from our impact champions and executive sponsors. Our KPIs also form the backbone of this impact report, shaping its structure and guiding its content in line with our four pillars shown on the right.
Recognising the varying levels of KPI tracking maturity across our schools, we are committed to standardising KPI definitions and methodologies through targeted transformation plans. In 2023, we partnered with Reporting21 by Cority to develop a personalised tool to streamline data collection and enhance KPI accuracy to support these efforts. This tool monitors year-on-year progress and ensures that trained staff assist impact champions in the data collection process. Our goal is to continuously improve the scope and traceability of our data, leading to more robust and reliable reporting over time.We are also committed to understanding our carbon footprint and have been reporting on our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, covering direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and indirect emissions from purchased energy. Scope 3 emissions represent the largest source of carbon output in the education sector, often accounting for over 85% of total emissions. Supply chain operations, learner accommodation, and learner travel primarily drive this significant impact. Since 2022, we have tracked waste, water, and business travel within Scope 3. As such, we identified key Scope 3 emission sources: purchased goods and services, energy transport and distribution loss, waste, business travel, employee commuting, and client transports. Recently, we surveyed employees’ commuting habits with local HR support to estimate these emissions. We are actively addressing the impact of Scope 3 emissions by implementing a comprehensive roadmap to measure and reduce them across all our schools.

----- PAGE 13 -----

12 Galileo Global EducationIntroducing Galileo Global EducationDiversity, Equity and 
Inclusion
“Our top priority is to attract and retain talent from diverse 
backgrounds to meet the Group’s needs and ambitions. This 
involves creating an ‘employee experience’ that aligns with 
individual aspirations and fosters a collective path for skill 
enhancement. Central to our HR policy is the commitment to 
training, upskilling, and reskilling, ensuring we develop the 
full potential of all our employees.” 
— Pascal Maury, Chief People Officer, GGE.We are dedicated to fostering diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) 
throughout the GGE Group, from the boardroom and management teams to our schools. Our commitment to diversity encompasses various attributes, including skills, experience, gender, and ethnicity, across all management levels. This diversity enriches our understanding and enhances our strategic approach. We return to DEI in more detail later in chapter 4.

----- PAGE 14 -----

Galileo Global EducationIntroducing Galileo Global Education13Impact Champions WorkshopsImpact champions
At GGE, we recognise the importance of driving sustainable 
improvements across our institutions through dedicated leadership and collaboration. As such, we have appointed 30 local ‘impact champions’ at both school and regional levels, and this year, we are excited to welcome 13 new champions to the network. These champions participate in this initiative alongside their regular job at GGE. In their roles as impact champions, they are responsible for data collection and ESG initiatives, and they receive guidance and feedback to help them leverage their understanding of their respective school’s strengths and areas for growth, driving sustainable improvements effectively.
We organise regular workshops for our impact champions throughout the year, where best practices are shared and discussed. These sessions promote exchanging ideas and strategies, ensuring our schools benefit from collective knowledge. We are committed to this collaborative learning approach, drawing on best practices and expert advice. Every year, we present various workshops for our impact champions. During 2023-2024, these workshops were designed to equip champions with the tools to address global challenges by embedding sustainability into curricula and promoting community engagement. They emphasised enhancing student engagement, transparency, and support for students with disabilities while introducing KPIs to measure programme impact. Additionally, some schools have local ESG or impact committees to discuss and implement relevant initiatives, ensuring comprehensive and coordinated sustainability efforts across the organisation.Additionally, the workshops focused on managing carbon footprints, particularly Scope 3 emissions, and highlighted the importance of a carbon strategy for student recruitment and accreditation. We also covered methods for estimating emissions and supporting underprivileged students through educational programmes and mentoring.

----- PAGE 15 -----

Galileo Global EducationIntroducing Galileo Global Education14Employability rate: The discrepancy in the 
employability rate this year compared to last year is primarily due to a refinement in the definition of the indicator. Last year, the employability rate measured employment two years after graduation, whereas this year, we adopted the more ambitious and industry-standard definition of employment one year after graduation. This adjustment provides a clearer benchmark for our goals.Internship rate: The slight decrease in the internship rate observed this year is offset by an increase in other forms of work experience reported by students. This transfer reflects evolving trends in student career preferences and market opportunities, which contribute to a more diverse range of experiences while maintaining strong professional development outcomes.2,100,680

----- PAGE 16 -----

15 Galileo Global Education
How we measure 
impact: our commitment to our learners03

----- PAGE 17 -----

16 Galileo Global EducationHow we measure impactHow we measure our 
impact on learnersAcademic Delivery
Learning 
environment and learner well-being
Job Market Readiness
Diversity & 
BelongingOur primary stakeholders are our learners. When our learners 
enrol, they trust us to prepare them for the professional world and boost their employability; these objectives will always be our main priority. Therefore, we are accountable to our learners, so we carefully integrate their feedback into our operations to ensure a positive academic experience, enjoyable student life, and improved employment outcomes.
In close cooperation with our schools, in 2023-2024, we 
established a list of 16 key student commitments across four dimensions: academic delivery, learning environment and well-being, job market readiness, and diversity and belonging, as outlined below, to which we continue to adhere.All courses are assessed by learners using a validated procedure, and learners’ feedback is considered.
Institutions provide support to learners in the building of their professional projects.
Learners declaring their 
disability can benefit from personalised support arrangements.All learners will be offered at least one satisfaction survey each year, and the results of these surveys should be discussed with their representatives.Programmes with an international dimension allow learners to experience an international environment at their institution and spend time abroad.
Any request for information 
from learners to the administration must be answered within the time limit set.The entire training offer is subject to objective recognition.
All institutions can provide 
psychological support to learners, teachers, and staff.All learners are trained to acquire the skills expected in their future careers to face the challenges of the ecological transition, and they are made aware of these issues at a minimum.
Graduates’ employability is measured using a rigorous method.
All institutions promote 
inclusion and respect for diversity.Industries are involved in developing and implementing curricula, and their feedback is incorporated into the continuous improvement process.
All institutions encourage 
learners to get involved in associations or volunteer.All institutions have a procedure for raising and handling harassment and bullying cases. Learners, teachers, and staff members are made aware of these topics.GGE encourages the implementation of pathways that blend skills through inter-school collaborations.
Learners are represented 
in the school’s governance through a student union or other forms of representation.01
11
140604
09030802
12
1513160705
10

----- PAGE 18 -----

Galileo Global EducationHow we measure impact17Quality objectives
As outlined in the table on previous page, the comprehensive mapping of 
our commitment to learners underpins the ambitions we strive to achieve at each school. The objective is to measure and demonstrate the tangible impacts and progress we deliver for our students over time. To support this, we have established specific quality standards for each student commitment, providing a clear benchmark for every school to assess performance.
Our primary focus for the coming year is to ensure that the standards for 
these commitments are upheld at the highest level across all schools in the following key areas: combating harassment, promoting inclusion, providing psychological support, ensuring student representation, and fostering 
student associations and societal involvement.
As of March 2024, based on responses to our Student Commitments survey 
sent to a representative sample of schools (50 schools out of 63 across eight countries: France, Cyprus, UK, Mexico, Spain, Germany, Senegal, and Costa Rica), we have identified areas of full compliance and areas needing improvement for our schools to ensure a qualitative experience to our learners. Below are the key outcomes of the survey and priority areas for schools to address.

----- PAGE 19 -----

Key Commitments 
Survey Outcome
18 Galileo Global EducationHow we measure impactDepending on the different national contexts in which our sampled 
schools operate and their implications in terms of regulations, our schools show some disparities in the actions deployed regarding certain commitments, even though a high level of achievement is shown. 
Schools that integrate learner experience as a key aspect of their 
strategy and governance tend to demonstrate high levels of achievement on most of our commitments. We have identified future improvement areas to ensure our schools reach a high standard for our learners. For instance, collective frameworks for our 42 French schools help them comprehensively structure their actions and reach their goals. Moreover, the Student Commitments survey also showed that several targets still need to be met, including course evaluation, raising awareness among all learners about the challenges of the ecological transition, detailing the characteristics of international programmes, hybridisation of learning methods, responding to learner complaints, and creating a comprehensive listing of training courses. 
Through continuous improvement and rigorous assessment, we aim to 
fulfil these commitments, enhancing the educational experience and support for all learners.
 
Across most of our Student 
Commitments, we observe a consistent 
level of achievement among GGE schools 
within our sample of 50 institutions. Most 
schools meet or exceed the expected 
standards for each specific Commitment.

----- PAGE 20 -----

19 Galileo Global Education
Enabling everyone 
to unleash their potential04

----- PAGE 21 -----

Galileo Global EducationEnabling everyone to unleash their potential20Introduction
At GGE, our efforts to help learners unleash their potential align with our 
learners’ commitment to diversity and belonging, fostering a supportive learning environment and promoting learner wellbeing . We acknowledge that 
addressing global educational disparities is essential for creating a diverse workforce, fostering innovation, and enhancing social impact.As such, we are dedicated to providing quality education to underserved groups that face challenges such as high tuition fees, discrimination, stress, and limited access. We focus on making education accessible and inclusive, supporting students with mental health concerns, and ensuring a safe, discrimination—and harassment-free environment.
To advance this commitment, we encourage our 
schools to strengthen their support for learners with disabilities through initiatives such as identifying dedicated disability correspondents and individualised support programmes. Over the past year, our schools have been particularly active on this front. Studi and emlyon in France have concentrated on disability support and gender equality, while Noroff in Norway and AKAD University in Germany have prioritised mental health and flexible learning. EUC in Cyprus and Domus Academy in Italy have extended their efforts to marginalised groups and societal transformation projects. Regent’s University in the UK and Istituto Marangoni have enhanced learner support with personalised assistance, cultural events, and accessible facilities, ensuring all learners can thrive.

----- PAGE 22 -----

Galileo Global EducationHow we measure Impact our commitment to our students1721 Galileo Global EducationEnabling everyone to unleash their potentialDEI initiativesFostering Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion amongst our learners
Some examples of DEI initiatives from our schools include European 
University Cyprus’ Gender Equality Plan from 2022 to 2024, which focuses on achieving gender balance in leadership, recruitment and career progression, integrating gender dimensions into research and teaching, and implementing measures to address gender-based violence, including sexual harassment. A new plan for 2025 onwards is currently being developed. 
Other schools, such as the Nuova Accademia di Belle Arti (NABA) in 
Italy and Macromedia University of Applied Sciences (Macromedia) in Germany, have extended their efforts in employee diversity and inclusion training by establishing dedicated committees. These committees are instrumental in enhancing training programmes and fostering inclusive cultures within the schools. 
Moreover, Narratiiv in France has appointed an ethical student 
representative in each class to cultivate a positive working environment that promotes respect, non-violence, and an openness to diversity. An ethics officer also supports these learners. We are dedicated to creating inclusive learning environments and celebrating our differences across our offices, schools, campuses, and digital platforms. Our zero-tolerance policy against discrimination based on gender, sex, culture, ethnicity, religion, and sexual orientation applies to everyone, from corporate staff to teachers, learners, and partners. We are pleased that 65% of all our schools have a formal diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) strategy for learners.
GGE values the autonomy of individual schools, leading to a decentralised 
approach to DEI. Many schools have developed their own strategies to meet unique needs. In addition, we are updating our talent attraction and retention strategies to align with our DEI goals.
Our faculty and staff are essential to our success in this area, so we prioritise their 
well-being and development. We are piloting a new learning management system to train all staff on Group values and DEI principles, with experts in our network developing additional training for corporate teams.
Moreover, we are proud to say that women hold almost half of our senior 
management positions, bringing diverse perspectives and driving more inclusive, innovative decision-making at the highest levels of our organisation.

----- PAGE 23 -----

Galileo Global Education 22Enabling everyone to unleash their potentialCreating opportunities for 
people with physical and learning special needs
Key Commitments Survey Outcome
Aligned with our focus on creating opportunities for 
individuals with physical and learning challenges and 
our dedication to Student Commitments, our school 
survey revealed that at GGE, supporting individuals 
with disabilities is a top priority. In France, for 
instance, 93% of our schools have a dedicated 
disability and communication correspondent who 
provides ongoing training and is well-known within 
the learner and teaching community, and 95% of 
our schools develop individualised support projects 
for learners who declare their disability and request 
assistance.
In the future, we will better structure our action 
plans concerning disabilities to ensure that learners 
receive appropriate support for their most important 
needs, particularly regarding accessibility and 
learning arrangements for those with special 
requirements.

----- PAGE 24 -----

Galileo Global Education 23Enabling everyone to unleash their potentialOur commitment to inclusive 
online and on-site learning Initiatives for fostering inclusion for learners with disabilities
At GGE, investing in online and hybrid learning is crucial for 
expanding educational access. Our investments enable remote learners to access courses and provide tailored support through recorded lessons for those with learning difficulties. Additionally, online learning helps reduce financial barriers by allowing flexible study schedules that accommodate diverse backgrounds and obligations. Our on-site and online schools also offer targeted support for learners with special needs, including technical equipment for disabilities and assistive tools like note-taking assistants, sign language interpretation, and adapted software.IPETH
In 2023-2024, IPETH promoted inclusion at its Puebla campus by offering courses in Mexican sign language and first aid. These initiatives improved learners’ communication skills and practical knowledge, benefiting those in health-related fields and enhancing their employability.Regent’s University
Throughout the past year, Regent’s University in London prioritised learner well-being with comprehensive support, including 1-1 sessions, counselling, and reasonable adjustments for learners with disabilities. Initiatives like the Belonging Campaign and workshops promoted community engagement and mental health awareness for learners with special needs.
AKAD
In Germany, AKAD’s 100% online business model enhances accessibility for learners with disabilities by allowing them to learn at their own pace and in the comfort of their environment. This flexibility eliminates barriers related to physical accessibility and transportation while also accommodating individual needs and schedules. Additionally, online learning platforms can be customised with assistive technologies, such as screen readers, closed captions, and adjustable font sizes, to support learners with various disabilities and ensure an inclusive and adaptable educational experience.GGE France
Over the past two years, all French schools in our network have established a structured programme with disability coordinators, supported by Mission Handicap France, to offer better support for learners with disabilities. This year, 85 conferences reached over 3,000 learners and over 400 formalised school support projects, with coordinators receiving regular training to address various issues and raise awareness.

----- PAGE 25 -----

Galileo Global Education 24Enabling everyone to unleash their potentialOvercoming social or 
financial barriersAccessibility and tuition-free 
programmes
In the 2023-2024 academic year, GGE France prioritised promoting 
social inclusion for learners, with plans to extend these initiatives to other countries. To support this mission, we partnered with fifteen NGOs specialising in educational support for vulnerable groups, including orphans, children with disabilities, those from challenging family situations, and foster children. This collaboration aims to eliminate financial barriers by providing free access to GGE school programmes for low-income and at-risk youth, successfully securing placements for 200 learners across our schools in France. Additionally, emlyon in France enhances social inclusion by requiring learners to complete a 50-hour field mission with non-profits, earning them a Social Entrepreneurship Certificate.
In France, we developed criteria to identify learners facing barriers to university success, particularly those with a vocational baccalaureate and socio-economic challenges. These criteria align with equal opportunity standards, targeting advanced grant holders, Urban Policy districts or Rural Revitalisation Zones residents, ASE beneficiaries (foster children), and young refugees or asylum seekers. By September 2024, we have enrolled 300 participants in various training and apprenticeship programmes.
To further support at-risk youth, GGE France partnered 
with Im’pactes. This organisation promotes and enhances the health, education, and cultural access for children, adolescents, and young adults, particularly To support learners, we awarded 7,053 merit-based scholarships, totalling over 10 million euros, with an average of slightly over 1,500 euros per scholarship. Additionally, we granted 5,119 income-based scholarships, amounting to over 6 million euros, with an average of 1,260 euros per scholarship. Furthermore, 
those affected by violence and placed by ASE. GGE France also partnered with ten major companies in November 2023 under the guidance of the French Ministry of the Economy. We are committed to welcoming 25 ASE learners annually to support them in improving their career prospects by up to 30% within three years. We are also working with French public financing institutions to promote higher education for protected youth. 
Additionally, we’ve launched financial aid initiatives 
across our institutions for the 2023-2024 academic year, including scholarships and tuition discounts in Germany, Spain, Italy, and Costa Rica, to support low-income and high-achieving learners.4,491 loans were facilitated through partnerships with various financing institutions, totalling over 27 million euros, with an average of 6,000 euros per loan. Our schools act as guarantors for low-income learners benefiting from these loans.

----- PAGE 26 -----

Galileo Global EducationHow we measure Impact our commitment to our students1725 Galileo Global EducationEnabling everyone to unleash their potentialInitiatives to overcome 
financial or social barriers
“I am a refugee from Pakistan, fleeing persecution as 
a Christian. Starting over in France was tough; I spent 
three months on the streets with my family. I quickly 
learned French and volunteered with Polaris 14, helping 
develop programmes for refugees. Unable to enter public 
universities, I discovered Paris School of Business’ tuition-
free programme through NGOs. My best memory this year 
was participating in the MBA LEXIE Programme in Germany. 
The biggest challenge was job hunting due to my asylum 
status. My dream is to help others, continue volunteering, and 
pursue a doctorate at PSB. This programme has changed my 
life. Thank you.” — Sean, 27, MBA Student at Paris School of 
Business (PSB).
“After high school in visual communication and an 
unsatisfying year in cinema, I found internships through the 
local mission, leading me to GGE’s partnership. I was thrilled 
to join LISAA Mode, a school I admired. My family situation 
and my mother’s low income made paying fees impossible. 
The biggest challenge was financing supplies, but I secured 
an emergency grant from the government. My best memory 
is of organising my fashion collection. I aim to specialise in 
3D design, develop my brand, and possibly pursue a Master’s. 
I am very grateful for this programme. Thank you.” — Myriam, 
21, 1st Year Fashion Design Student at LISAA ModeStudi
Studi partnered with France Travail, 
a French governmental agency that registers unemployed people, helps them find jobs, and provides them financial aid. Together, they worked towards training and integrating the long-term unemployed, ensuring access to education and support for diverse learners.emlyon
emlyon’s Responsible Engagement Programme required 50-hour field missions with partner nonprofits and offered a social entrepreneurship certificate. They also promoted social inclusion with five awareness programmes. They supported middle and high school learners, earning the Cordées de la Réussite label — a French national initiative to promote equal education opportunities by supporting learners from disadvantaged backgrounds.PFH
In 2023-2024, PFH in Germany supported access to education through several initiatives. The PFH Zukunftsstipendium offered 200 euros monthly for bachelor’s degrees, with 20 seats per course. The Deutschlandstipendium provided 300 euros monthly for a year. Deutsche Bildung and Brain Capital offered funding with income-based repayment. PFH also waived fees for parents on parental leave, provided discounts for cohabitating partners, and fee reductions for 
multi-generational learners.

----- PAGE 27 -----

Galileo Global EducationHow we measure Impact our commitment to our students1726 Galileo Global EducationEnabling everyone to unleash their potentialPromoting health and 
well-being
At GGE, education goes beyond academics to include the holistic 
well-being of our learners. By prioritising their physical, emotional, and mental health, we create an environment where they can thrive and reach their full potential. Our commitment to health and well-being is evident in the comprehensive mental health services, safety initiatives, and anti-harassment policies implemented across our schools.
“Education is not just about academics; it should 
prioritise learners’ well-being. By nurturing their 
physical, emotional, and mental health, we create an 
environment where they can thrive and reach their full 
potential.” 
— Alvaro Ordonez, TAI Director.

----- PAGE 28 -----

Galileo Global EducationEnabling everyone to unleash their potential27Mental health policies 
and servicesInitiatives to promote mental health 
and well-being
Investing in health and well-being is critical for our students to flourish. All our 
schools seek to provide a supportive and safe environment and take a holistic approach to well-being, where physical, mental, financial, and social needs are attended to. Our schools promote students’ health and well-being through various initiatives, with most offering access to mental health support services.
Key Commitments Survey Outcome
We prioritise our learners’ health, safety, and welfare. 82% of 
our schools have formal Health and Safety policies. A key focus 
at GGE is supporting mental health, with 96% of our sampled 
schools providing their learners access to distance or in-
person psychological support services. Looking ahead, we aim 
to guarantee that all learners benefit from general information 
and awareness-raising actions and that relevant staff members 
at every school are trained regarding mental health. For instance, Noroff, Regent’s, and UCIMED all provide extensive student well-being programmes. Through its student association, Noroff offers social activities, individual support, and mental health services. Regent’s provides personalised support through its Well-being & Disability Team, including counselling referrals and wellness activities. UCIMED’s Psychopedagogy Department implements programmes to reduce dropout rates, offers academic advising, and provides mental health and emotional support through counselling and mentoring.IPETH
IPETH in Mexico is dedicated to supporting learner and staff well-being through various initiatives. These include informative talks on mental health and well-being to raise awareness and guided meditation sessions to provide tools for stress management and improved concentration. The institution offers free medical and nursing services, including vital sign monitoring and emergency care. IPETH’s website lists contacts for foundations providing psychological care, with free and paid options available.EUC
EUC in Cyprus is committed to supporting learners’ mental health through various initiatives and programmes. They provide valuable resources for managing anxiety and stress and building mental resilience. EUC organises dedicated sessions to help learners cope with their feelings, study effectively, and develop mental toughness. The Office of Student Affairs hosts events focused on stress management and overall well-being, including healthy eating and fitness sessions. Additionally, EUC offers specialised events to equip learners with practical tools to maintain and boost their mental health.

----- PAGE 29 -----

Galileo Global Education 28Enabling everyone to unleash their potentialFostering learner 
safety
Preventing and combating 
harassment Initiatives to foster learner safety
Preventing and combating harassment is a top priority at GGE. 
All GGE France schools require signed acknowledgement of the GGE Essential Values Charter, which emphasises non-harassment. Within our Group policy framework, schools develop their own inclusion policies and programmes tailored to local legal requirements, norms, and traditions. Each school addresses the specific needs of learners and staff through channels like whistleblowing hotlines, surveys, and dedicated on-campus teams. We also run regular anti-harassment campaigns to ensure safety and inclusion and take every reported case seriously, ensuring thorough investigation and appropriate action.
Key Commitments Survey Outcome
Aligned with our commitment to preventing harassment 
and supporting learners, our recent survey shows 
that all schools have protocols to address potential 
harassment or violence cases. 92% of our schools have 
appointed and trained designated points of contact 
to implement these protocols, support learners, and 
ensure that incidents are reported appropriately.GGE France
In 2024, the #NonCestNon (no means no) campaign was launched across all GGE schools in France, raising awareness and educating about harassment, violence, and discrimination. The initiative provides tools to recognise, prevent, and combat these issues and foster a culture of respect and inclusion within our schools. It works by training a network of anti-harassment and anti-bullying coordinators in our schools, engaging learners through co-created content with the Cours Florent, a private drama school in Paris, and promoting open conversations to amplify prevention and support efforts.ISM
At ISM in Senegal, learner safety is emphasised through harassment prevention. To raise awareness, a campaign has been launched, ‘C’est pas ta faute’ (it’s not your fault). This was the result of a published white paper. Additional staff training sessions have been conducted inr March 2023. Harassment coordinators have been integrated into management procedures to maintain a safe and supportive environment.

----- PAGE 30 -----

29 Galileo Global Education
Ensuring teaching 
and academic excellence05

----- PAGE 31 -----

Galileo Global Education 30Ensuring teaching and academic excellenceIntroduction
Our responsibility to ensure quality education and 
enhance the learning experience aligns with our learners’ commitment to academic delivery and job market readiness.
Innovation is at the heart of this commitment, which 
drives curriculum development and positions GGE learners as highly sought-after by employers. As such, we strive to be recognised as leaders in innovation, hybrid learning, and post-graduation employment.Moreover, in addition to innovation, we importantly focus on bridging the gap between the skills taught in schools and those businesses need. Thus, we focus on continually equipping learners with the ability to acquire new skills. Recent studies show that the average time until skill obsolescence has decreased significantly. For most skills, the duration has shortened to around 4-5 years as of 2023, down from 30 years in 1987 (HR Daily Advisor, IGI Global). This decline is even more rapid in digital and IT skills fields, where obsolescence can occur within 18 months to 2 years (McKinsey & Company). This rapid pace of change underscores the critical need for continuous learning and adaptability in the workforce, especially in a world undergoing digital transformation.Therefore, we focus on preparing learners to be resilient and agile by fostering critical thinking and creativity. Our strong emphasis on applied arts, fashion, and design helps students develop a combination of creative, entrepreneurial, and technical skills that will greatly benefit them in various future roles.
In addition, we offer a flexible learning approach 
that allows learners to tailor their education to their individual needs and goals. By modernising the learning experience to meet the demands and needs of both current and future learners, we ensure they gain valuable, employable skills. This helps solidify the return on their investment in higher education.
“Often, as an institution, we focus on education 
performance, teaching methodology, and programme 
innovation. But just as important, we need to think about 
student life, how learners feel, and their needs during 
this important period. We strive to do this yearly at NABA 
because this isn’t a once-off activity. We foster the student 
community through activities, projects, thoughts, and 
campus investment to nurture an inclusivity model so that 
the academy becomes ‘their’ academy”.
Donato Medici, CEO of GGE Italia

----- PAGE 32 -----

Galileo Global Education 31Ensuring teaching and academic excellenceEnsuring teaching and 
academic excellence
Maintaining continuous learner feedbackAt GGE, our commitment to ensuring quality education and enhancing the 
learning experience is centred on maintaining and advancing teaching and academic excellence across all our schools. We achieve this by fostering a culture of continuous learner feedback, ensuring our faculty members possess deep expertise, and actively encouraging learner involvement in governance. These elements create an environment where learners are challenged and supported throughout their educational journey.
Our faculty at GGE comprises dedicated professionals who bring extensive 
expertise directly from real-world industry practices. With thousands of full-time faculty members across all our schools, supplemented by part-time lecturers and practitioners from various fields, we ensure our learners receive an articulation of a strong academic and practical education. To further enhance the quality of teaching, we provide our educators with comprehensive training in innovative learning techniques tailored to their specific subject areas. This wealth of knowledge and experience allows us to offer a broad range of subjects and specialisations, ensuring each learner can enjoy a learning experience that meets their needs and aspirations.
“There is a pleasant family atmosphere at Macromedia University. The 
study groups are relatively small, so we have personal, direct contact 
with our professors. All the lecturers have a lot of expertise in the 
fashion industry, and they share their wealth of experience with us. I like 
best the many practical workshops and the glamorous fashion shows 
where we can present our designs. It’s exciting to see your designs on 
models and participate in a real fashion seminar, Fashion Design B.A. 
Campus Berlin student, Macromedia.As our primary stakeholders, we must understand learners’ feedback on the quality of their education. Such insights enable us to refine our course offerings and teaching methods in alignment with our commitments to them.
Developing learner satisfaction is part of the ongoing 
complementary efforts to create and evidence an excellent learner experience discussed throughout this report.
Key Commitments Survey Outcome
At GGE, improving learner satisfaction is a 
key priority. All our schools conduct an annual 
survey covering teaching methods, schooling 
experience, and professional support. We aim for a 
consistent approach across the Group, with unified 
methodologies already in France, Cyprus, Spain, and 
GGE Latin America. The learner response rate of our 
satisfaction survey varies across our schools. We aim 
to improve the answer rates, receive more feedback 
from learners, and capitalise on those results for 
continuous advancement. We also aim to improve the 
communication of those results with our learners.

----- PAGE 33 -----

Galileo Global Education 32Ensuring teaching and academic excellenceStudent involvement 
in governanceInitiatives to inspire learner 
involvement in governance
Student representation is a key component of our governance 
approach, ensuring learners have a significant voice in shaping their academic journey. As primary stakeholders, their perspectives drive meaningful changes in educational practices and policies. Active learner involvement is essential for creating a responsive and effective learning environment. By engaging in governance, learners help tailor their educational experience to meet their needs and prepare for future challenges. 
This commitment to fostering learner involvement in governance 
is demonstrated through our strong support for learner participation and the encouragement of learner-led initiatives.
“I joined a school that had become a benefit corporation or for-profit company 
that includes a commitment to social and environmental goals and profit. As 
a student, I was eager to discuss the school’s environmental transition. We 
established an Environment Committee with other learners, collaborating 
with the CSR department, staff, professors, and alumni. Since its inception 
in January 2023, we have made progress on several projects to reduce the 
school’s carbon footprint. We conducted an inventory of CSR inclusion in programmes, worked on establishing a carbon exchange to promote low-
carbon mobility, proposed pooling community purchases with ethical suppliers, 
raised awareness on campus by creating a permaculture vegetable garden, and 
highlighted the career paths of engaged alumni during student meetings.” — 
Carla, Student at emlyon, Former Head of the Environment Committee.Key Commitments Survey Outcome
Data from our recent stakeholder 
survey reinforces our commitment 
to student representation. The 
survey revealed that 92% of learners 
across GGE schools are formally 
represented in governance bodies, 
enabling direct dialogue with the 
administration. This demonstrates 
a strong overall achievement in 
fostering student representation and 
engagement in school governance.emlyon
At emlyon in France, learner involvement in governance plays a crucial role in shaping education. Learners participate at various levels, with class representatives liaising between learners, management, and faculty. The Corporate Council oversees student associations, organises CSR training, allocates subsidies, and promotes inclusivity. Student representation also extends to the Mission Committee, involving key student leaders.Istituto Marangoni 
At Istituto Marangoni, student governance is integral to education. Learners engage primarily through class representatives. In the campuses in Italy, additionally, the StudentCouncil collaborates with the Academic Council and Evaluation Board to influence educational matters. In London, governance includes a Student Academic Governor, a Student Senate, and programme-specific representatives.NABA  
At NABA in Italy, student governance is vital for improving education and the student experience. The Student Council coordinates participation, with learners appointed to official boards by the Director. Learners contributed to the 2023/2024 NABA Reform Commission, and representation in the Quality Committee expanded in July 2024. Input is gathered through the Student Council, surveys, the Learners’ Forum, and meetings with management.

----- PAGE 34 -----

Galileo Global Education 33Ensuring teaching and academic excellenceInnovative delivery of 
educationAt GGE, we support the innovative delivery of education by hybridising 
disciplines and utilising digital platforms to enhance the learner experience and develop diverse skills. We are committed to providing a dynamic and responsive educational environment that prepares learners for future challenges by integrating cutting-edge technology and fostering interdisciplinary approaches.

----- PAGE 35 -----

Galileo Global Education 34Ensuring teaching and academic excellenceHybridising disciplines 
for diverse skills development 
Initiatives to boost 
innovative educationOur schools are at the forefront of hybridisation for diverse skills 
development. Hybridisation refers to blending traditional in-person learning with online or digital methods, creating a flexible and integrated learning experience for students. 
AKAD 
AKAD in Germany uses digital innovations like interactive learning courses (ILKs) and a chatbot. ILKs, awarded a Comenius Medal in 2024, engage learners with multimedia content. A survey of 110 participants showed that 94.9% would recommend ILKs, 93.3% want more, and 58% use them frequently, highlighting their positive impact on motivation, learning, and self-determination.Domus Academy
Domus Academy in Italy drives transformative education through innovative programmes and partnerships. In February 2024, they hosted a Futures-Based Innovation course. They also participated in Milan Design Week 2024 with UNFOLD, a project with five international design schools culminating in an exhibition addressing contemporary issues.UCIMED
UCIMED in Costa Rica enhances education through innovative programmes and partnerships. The Alumni Programme offers training on AI in Health Sciences and Costa Rican Sign Language. A partnership with ROCHE trains ophthalmologists in retinal diseases, benefiting 43 specialists. The Continuing Education Programme provides 13 activities, including courses and workshops in health and life sciences, emphasising comprehensive skills development.Studi
Studi in France uses AI to enhance education by leveraging tools such as an educational content generator. They recently introduced an AI chatbot, offering students 24/7 personalised responses regarding the organisation of their studies, which helps Studi focus on relevant areas for improvement. Tests are currently underway to deploy pedagogical bots. This aligns with the institution’s mission to support lifelong learning, particularly for professionals 
seeking to upskill.

----- PAGE 36 -----

Galileo Global Education 35Ensuring teaching and academic excellenceAdvancing digital 
platforms and technology
At GGE, technology ensures quality education and enhances the 
learning experience. We do this by providing flexible, personalised content and improving lesson delivery. Schools have invested in digital tools like Blackboard and Moodle to support hybrid learning and boost engagement. Our ‘student-first dashboards’ monitor platform usage and attendance, which has helped reduce dropout risks and contributed to an 81% retention rate - significantly over the group’s average retention rate of 72% - across several countries, including Cyprus, Germany, Mexico, and France. We are focused on expanding these dashboards across the Group to further enhance performance measurement and retention.
GGE is committed to staying at the forefront of technological 
developments by implementing tools that ensure educational quality and integrity. We also encourage innovation that meets stakeholders’ needs, ensuring meaningful educational outcomes. To streamline processes, we use technology for seamless enrolment, financial administration, and managing internships, job placements, and alumni networks. Additionally, we are developing a Group policy on AI use to guide future technological integration.

----- PAGE 37 -----

Galileo Global Education 36Ensuring teaching and academic excellenceAI Integration and insights
“The education of the future, in the vision of 
Istituto Marangoni, must have the courage to 
embrace digital evolution by better managing 
the software offered by AI to create new 
dimensions of experimentation, capable 
of increasingly enhancing uniqueness and 
creative genius.” — Stefania Valenti, Managing 
Director, Istituto Marangoni.At GGE, we firmly believe in artificial intelligence’s (AI) transformative 
potential to create distinctive opportunities in education. AI is not just a tool; it is a catalyst for redefining professions and equipping us to prepare for the future of work by fostering new, relevant skills. It enables us to reimagine teaching methodologies, enrich learning experiences, and enhance the learner journey. By integrating AI solutions into our operations, we significantly improve our organisational efficiency and elevate the quality of our educational offerings. Furthermore, AI tools empower us to amplify creativity, boost productivity, and maximise our impact.
Every institution within our Group is encouraged to develop a unique 
perspective on AI and tailor its use according to its distinct culture, values, and operational context. As such, each school is creating its own ‘AI Manifesto’ to guide the promotion of AI usage in alignment with its specific needs and priorities. While promoting individual approaches, we also emphasise the need for a unified ethical framework as we acknowledge that AI systems have inherent limitations and risks, and their implementation comes with significant responsibility.AI should serve as a support for learning, not as a replacement for the learning process itself. As AI technologies increasingly influence educational and career trajectories, they must be employed with caution and transparency. In response to these concerns, we have developed a set of principles encapsulated in our ‘AI Charter.’ This charter is being integrated into existing processes and policies across our institutions, such as learner and teacher handbooks, school AI Manifestos, and ESG processes.
As a concrete example of integrating AI in our learning environments, 
we launched a series of weekly 3-minute videos titled ‘AI Appetisers,’ showcasing practical use cases. These 14 sessions were initially made available to all employees of our French schools, receiving highly positive feedback. Building on this success, the ‘AI Appetisers’ are being extended to all entities within the Group.
Moreover, we are establishing an ‘AI Governance’ structure to oversee and 
support all our AI initiatives. This will include an ‘AI Cell’ within the Group Executive Committee, collaborating closely with representatives from our schools. Beginning in September 2024, the aim is to facilitate sharing experiences, address questions from across our institutions, and promote the growth of AI user communities. 
Additionally, our commitment to AI extends beyond Group policies and 
employee training. We are engaging in the AI journey through a series of initiatives and pilots gaining significant momentum. These initiatives include using AI for content creation, enhancing learning experiences to offer a more personalised learning experience, and integrating AI into school operations. 
The upcoming 2024/2025 academic year will be pivotal for accelerating 
these initiatives, setting the stage for even greater adoption and integration of AI across all dimensions of our operations.

----- PAGE 38 -----

Galileo Global Education 37Ensuring teaching and academic excellenceAI initiatives
A whitepaper published by Macromedia highlighted both the benefits 
and challenges of AI integration in higher education. An analysis of 10,318 project papers and 590 bachelor theses revealed that only 2.4% of learners extensively used AI, with no significant difference in failure rates between AI users and non-users. Despite mandatory AI use in some courses, 28% of learners preferred not to use AI. However, surveys showed that 51% of lecturers and learners saved 1-5 hours weekly with AI tools, and over 70% viewed AI as a digitalisation opportunity. In response to these findings, Macromedia has established clear guidelines for AI use and provided extensive training to ensure its effective implementation. The institution anticipates a shift in examination formats towards tasks requiring higher-order thinking, ensuring that AI supports educational standards rather than undermines them. While concerns about AI’s accuracy and interpretation persist, the institution is committed to addressing these challenges and harnessing AI’s potential in education.
Macromedia
Macromedia University was awarded the title of Most Innovative Private University in Germany for its holistic approach to AI.

----- PAGE 39 -----

Galileo Global Education 38Ensuring teaching and academic excellenceBoosting job market 
readiness 
At GGE, we are dedicated to our learners’ post-graduation 
careers, with all our schools expected to guide learners on their career paths. Many schools organise career days and fairs, often in collaboration with industry experts, seminars, workshops, intensive short courses, and one-on-one counselling. This support includes assistance with job placements, career changes, salary evolution, and leadership development. We aim to help learners become proficient in new and emerging technologies, expand their networks, and find job placements.“Creative ideas, entrepreneurial thinking and 
knowledge of digital technologies are key 
elements that have helped me a lot in setting 
up my start-ups. The Digital Technologies 
& Coding course teaches precisely these 
skills and prepares learners to apply them 
successfully in a team. This course is a clear 
recommendation for anyone who wants to 
found a startup themselves.” — Kira, Alum, 
CPO & Co-Founder, Datarella GmbH.
Key Commitments Survey Outcome
In line with our focus on job market readiness 
and Student Commitments, our stakeholder 
survey revealed that 94% of our schools 
organise career events that connect 
companies with learners, fostering valuable 
professional interactions. Additionally, two-
thirds of schools support our learners in 
developing their career plans.

----- PAGE 40 -----

UCIMED
UCIMED in Costa Rica 
integrates employability and entrepreneurship into its curriculum with courses like ‘Fundamentals of Entrepreneurship’ and practical experiences in nutrition and pharmacy. The Emprendé, a Women Entrepreneurs Project launched in April 2024, provided training and soft skills talks to 51 participants, including learners, graduates, staff, and community members.European University Cyprus (EUC)
The Microsoft for Startups Programme enhances employability and entrepreneurship. This initiative supports learners, graduates, and employees in developing entrepreneurial skills and launching businesses. The programme provides resources, training, and mentorship to help participants turn innovative ideas into successful startups. By collaborating with Microsoft, EUC ensures access to cutting-edge tools and expertise, fostering a dynamic environment for entrepreneurship and career development.Digital Campus
Employability and entrepreneurship are key focuses, exemplified by the annual Maker Week event in France. As detailed on the institution’s website, this initiative allows learners to engage in intensive, hands-on projects that simulate real-world startup environments. Participants collaborate in teams to develop innovative solutions guided by industry professionals and mentors. Maker Week enhances learners’ entrepreneurial skills, fosters creativity, and prepares them for successful careers by offering practical experience and networking opportunities. 
Galileo Global Education 39Ensuring teaching and academic excellenceEnsuring learners’ 
employability 
Initiatives to stimulate employability 
and entrepreneurshipOur schools are working hard to ensure learners’ employability 
beyond graduation. GGE France tailors its programmes to meet regional workforce demands, ensuring graduates are job-ready. Istituto Marangoni employability through a strong link with the industry, mentorships and specials projects, such as the Alumni Talent Showroom at WHITE Milanoand a Business Accelerator in London.  Emlyon in France supports entrepreneurship with its incubator and Business Creation Project, which has helped launch over 1,000 start-ups. In Germany, PFH, a leading start-up university, offers a specialised degree in Entrepreneurship & Start-up Creation, drawing on over 13 years of expertise from its Centre for Entrepreneurship.
Recognising the importance of employability, we remain committed to tracking graduate employment success rates and the speed at which graduates secure jobs. We also plan to assess job quality and relevance. This also importantly aligns with the aim of our schools, which is to align curricula with local job market needs and foster entrepreneurial skills.“As a Digital Marketing student at Noroff, I found the class environment very 
nice, with a down-to-earth, educational, and practical teacher. What I love about 
Noroff is you get hands-on experience with tools and methods relevant to the 
job market. This practical approach really paid off for my classmate Malin and 
me, as we both secured jobs in marketing agencies following our internships. 
The experience at Noroff equipped us with the necessary skills and real-world 
opportunities to transition smoothly into our careers. You can read more about 
our success here.” — Jonas, Digital Marketing Student at Noroff.

----- PAGE 41 -----

Domus Academy
With 97% international learners, 
Domus Academy in Italy has over 30 university partnerships. The academy’s programmes, taught entirely in English, include special scholarships and joint academic collaborations, emphasising a global educational environment.IEU
IEU in Mexico deployed various programmes in collaboration with companies, such as their latest partnership with Google, which offers a scholarship for a Google Career Diploma. 1,500 scholarships have been granted to IEU and IPETH learners through this partnership. This collaborative programme is tailored for new and enrolled learners with no prior experience required while providing online and flexible courses covering a range of fields such as UX Design, IT Support, Digital Marketing, Data Analysis, and Project Management. 
Galileo Global Education 40Ensuring teaching and academic excellenceProfessional 
partnerships
Initiatives to strengthen professional 
partnershipsProfessional partnerships are vital for 
enhancing student employability through applied research and work placements, and our schools maintain strong relationships with a wide range of organisations. Studi launched its Business Search Unit in France in February 2024 to actively assist apprentices in securing positions by directly contacting companies.
Our schools partner with businesses, non-
governmental organisations, and public bodies to address the growing skills gap and provide rapid upskilling and reskilling opportunities 
This development of continuous learning paths ensures that our learners can upskill and reskill in line with current market and societal demands. “Our mission is to provide people from all walks of life 
with job-ready skills and competencies. Learning is a 
never-ending process, and our average online student 
is now 30 years old, with many above the age of 40.” — 
Lars Erik Torjussen, Noroff CEO.through dedicated business classes and professional certifications. 
For example, in partnership with Experis 
Academy, the Noroff School of Technology and Digital Media offers the Noroff Accelerate Programme in Norway. This programme includes instructor-led boot camps and will soon expand to self-paced online courses.
Additionally, European University Cyprus 
further strengthens its programmes through advisory boards comprising industry professionals and experts who guide programme coordinators on evolving labour market trends. Similarly, Macromedia’s honorary professors in Germany maintain close industry ties to anticipate changes in required skill sets.
These collaborative efforts ensure our courses 
are regularly updated, equipping learners with the most relevant and current skills and knowledge, making them highly competitive in 
the job market.

----- PAGE 42 -----

Galileo Global Education 41Ensuring teaching and academic excellenceOur international 
learning environment
Global presence and an international learning environment are 
essential to our unique student offering. We actively encourage all our schools to participate in international exchange programmes between schools within the GGE school network or other renowned schools, providing exclusive international opportunities for learners and faculty. These programmes expose learners to diverse cultures and traditions, fostering cultural sensitivity and broadening their perspectives. This cross-cultural collaboration also enhances networking and career opportunities, helping learners develop essential qualities such as adaptability, open-mindedness, and tenacity, which employers highly value.For instance, Istituto Marangoni has developed connections with global and well-reputed universities for student study abroad opportunities. The institution also partners with Macromedia in Germany, ESG MBA, and Paris School of Business in France to offer various international programmes. Emlyon in France has 200 international partnerships across 50 countries, enabling nearly 2,000 learners to study globally under their ‘Resonance 2028’ strategic plan. In France, we also invest in creating collaborations within our network of French schools to offer courses taught by partner institutions, benefiting over 1,000 learners, with hybrid programmes, including joint and double degrees.

----- PAGE 43 -----

Galileo Global Education 42Ensuring teaching and academic excellence
“We at AKAD University are convinced that nowadays lifelong 
learning is one of the key factors to becoming and staying 
successful professionally and personally — so for over 60 
years, we, as distance learning experts, do everything to 
support people with their learning journey and live their 
dreams. We are constantly evolving, not just by offering a wide 
range of study programmes and vocational training, but also 
by innovating in didactical approaches, thereby shaping the 
future of learning.” — Florence Hausemann, AKAD CEO.Entrepreneurship and 
business incubatorsInitiatives towards stimulating 
entrepreneurship
While many learners follow traditional employment pathways, 
many build their own businesses. Our schools create open-minded and imaginative spaces to support entrepreneurial learners. For on-site schools with a business curriculum, this has led to almost 17% of learners setting up their own businesses within one year of graduation, including entrepreneurs, freelancers, and medical professionals starting their own practices.ISM
ISM in Senegal supports entrepreneurship through its two incubators, ISM Incub’ and IESA Incub’, launched in January 2019. ISM Incub’ focuses on innovative projects across various domains such as digital, agriculture, management, services, tech & IT, and social entrepreneurship. IESA Incub’, launched in Paris in January 2018 and now extended to Dakar in partnership with the ISM Group, is an accelerator for cultural entrepreneurship. Both incubators offer a certified training programme, access to developers for prototype creation, a modern coworking space, and networking sessions with investors and key players in the entrepreneurial ecosystem. In partnership with the SUQALI project, the incubators facilitate financial inclusion by providing funding tickets to micro-entrepreneurs and small to medium-sized enterprises across Senegal. This collaboration aims to enhance access to financing and support the growth of innovative projects.EUC
The EUC Startup Programme is a collaboration between the School of Business at European University Cyprus and Microsoft, aimed at promoting and accelerating the growth of startups in Cyprus. The Business School organises the programme, providing tailored training and mentoring. At the same time, Microsoft offers access to advanced technologies, Azure credits, AI tools, and expert guidance, creating a comprehensive support ecosystem for participating startups.TAI
In Spain, TAI’s LANZA Artistic Residencies programme supports entrepreneurship and artistic creation for learners and alumni by providing essential resources and infrastructure. Participants receive mentoring, financial support, and access to professional spaces and equipment, enhancing their project development. This programme significantly boosts learners’ careers by facilitating the growth and impact of their artistic initiatives, preparing them for national and international exposure.

----- PAGE 44 -----

43 Galileo Global Education
Transforming society 
and lives06

----- PAGE 45 -----

Galileo Global Education 44Transforming society and livesIntroduction
At GGE, our mission extends beyond transforming 
education; we are committed to driving societal change. This commitment is vital as our world faces interconnected environmental, social, economic, and technological crises, including climate change, ecological collapse, biodiversity 
loss, inequality, and rapid technological advancements. Our learners are motivated to make a positive 
impact through their life choices, studies, and careers, and employers are increasingly seeking candidates who can address these societal challenges and adapt to evolving markets. As educators, we are responsible for equipping today’s and tomorrow’s workforce with the skills to tackle these issues. Every learner we teach — whether aspiring managers, creatives, or healthcare professionals — plays a crucial role in building a sustainable future. To support this, we integrate the principles of a fair climate transition into the core missions of many of our schools, ensuring that every learner understands the importance of sustainability. Moreover, these efforts to transform society and lives align with our learner commitment to the learning environment, learner well-being, and job market readiness.
“At Macromedia University, we recognise that 
we live in a world where media can significantly 
influence our society. Media have the potential 
to make our world more democratic, peaceful, 
just, climate-friendly, liveable, and diverse—or 
not. All media professionals must be aware of this 
dimension. That’s why the ethical perspective of 
decisions in the media and creative industries is 
firmly anchored in our competence objectives. 
Our commitment to embedding these values 
ensures our learners are prepared to make 
responsible and impactful decisions in their 
future careers.” — Prof. Dr. Florian Haumer, 
Vice President of Research, Art Practice and 
Knowledge Transfer, Macromedia.

----- PAGE 46 -----

Galileo Global Education 45Transforming society and livesBuilding future skills 
for social impact
Equipping learners with future-ready skills is essential for fostering positive 
social impact. We strive for all our learners to graduate as responsible citizens, ready and inspired to contribute to a better future for everyone. We encourage our schools to integrate sustainability into their curricula, equipping learners with the skills and knowledge to tackle global challenges like climate change critically and creatively. 
In our schools, around 12% of programmes include courses fully dedicated 
to sustainability issues, and roughly 47% of programmes include courses in which sustainability challenges are being addressed. Students are equipped with the skills and knowledge needed to critically and creatively address global challenges such as climate change. Our innovative education model combines curricular and extracurricular activities that engage learners in sustainability, address global challenges, and enhance their employability 
through real-world impact.
“Receiving the 2024 Social Entrepreneurship 
Award at emlyon recognised the efforts and genuine 
commitment of everyone involved in this joint 
project, which brings together learners from all 
backgrounds in the common fight against student 
poverty. My involvement with COP1 has certainly 
shaped my academic journey, guiding me towards 
courses with a strong environmental and social 
impact.”  — Ines, Student at PGE and Director of 
the Lyon branch of the COP1 Student Solidarity 
Association, which works to help learners in 
challenging situations throughout France.“In a speech during the I’M CONSCIOUS talks at Istituto Marangoni, 
I emphasised the importance of integrating sustainability into the 
design thinking process. Sustainability and responsible design are 
inseparable, as environmental responsibility cannot exist without 
social justice, ethical practices, and respect for the people who 
make our products possible. For future leaders in the fashion 
industry, I believe the greatest challenge for the younger generation 
will be redefining the role of clothing in this century.” — Matteo 
Ward, Co-Founder and CEO of WRÅD, Vice-President of Fashion 
Revolution Italia.

----- PAGE 47 -----

Galileo Global Education 46Transforming society and livesInitiatives to embed sustainability 
into the curriculumGGE France
In 2023, GGE France launched 
a major initiative to embed sustainability across all curricula, regardless of the field — whether art, business, technology, or health. This initiative ensures learners understand environmental issues and adapt their professional practices accordingly. For example, learners at the Digital School learn efficient file management to reduce digital waste, reflecting our commitment to sustainability. 
Starting in September 2024, 
some of our schools in France began embedding sustainability into the curriculum to equip learners with the knowledge and skills needed to tackle pressing global challenges. This initiative includes introducing 10.5 hours of annual coursework, totalling 42 hours across undergraduate and master’s programmes, focused on social and environmental fundamentals. As learners progress, they will delve into issues like climate change and biodiversity and their impact on various industries. Additionally, existing courses are being updated to include responsible professional practices. emlyon 
Emlyon in France has completely redesigned its courses to integrate the acquisition of corporate social responsibility skills systematically to meet the challenges of ecological transition and social responsibility. All courses are being reviewed based on the ‘SDGs Inside Repository’ created by emlyon’s research professors. Thus, 87% of emlyon courses are aligned with the UN’s SDGs, embedding CSR skills throughout the curriculum. 
Noroff
Noroff in Norway is embedding sustainability into all its vocational programmes, preparing learners for future challenges and fostering positive social impact.“At Macromedia University, design is viewed as an 
interface between strategy, aesthetics, theory, and 
methods. Design involves more than purely visual 
aspects; it’s about developing an attitude towards 
products, such as sustainability and inclusion. As 
designers, it’s our task to improve the situation of 
people and the environment. To sensitise our learners 
to this responsibility, we cooperate with corporate 
partners from the business world and work on real 
tasks in international contexts. This holistic approach 
prepares our learners to address contemporary 
issues and make a positive impact through design.” 
— Prof. Dr. Christof Breidenich, Head of Design B.A. 
Campus Cologne, Macromedia.Paris Business School
The Paris School of BusinessCenter of Research for Energy and Climate Change (CRECC) was founded in 2019 to promoteinterdisciplinary research anddisseminate knowledge in thefields of energy and climatechange. Its objective is to provide a leading hub of analysis covering issues on the efficient use of energy, on cleaner and more sustainable energy sources, shedding light on their applications and fostering public awareness.
Paris School of Business has 
also chosen to support its students in their training as future responsible managers by creating the STAR label (Sustainability Track for Advanced Responsibility) in 2023. The aim is to encourage students to work with more inclusive companies and organizations committed to meeting environmental, social and societal challenges. These commitments complement the compulsory courses offered in their curriculum. This is a PSB Label, characterized by a system of points obtained according to their successive commitments.

----- PAGE 48 -----

Galileo Global Education 47Transforming society and livesCommunity impact
Our institutions are committed to community engagement through 
impactful initiatives, offering free or low-cost services such as training for refugees and support for people experiencing homelessness. We incorporate mandatory social and environmental missions into our programmes, with health clinics providing affordable care to underserved populations while serving as training grounds for learners. Participation in community activities is recognised with certificates, and we actively promote volunteering, integrate sustainability into our curricula, and support vulnerable groups through discounted health services and community projects.
At GGE, when a school supports community engagement, its 
learners can gain practical, real-world experience that enhances their understanding and skillset. This involvement fosters personal growth, empathy and leadership skills and promotes civic engagement. Additionally, community engagement can boost academic performance and open career development opportunities.
Our schools are dedicated to societal transformation, embedding community engagement into academic and extracurricular activities. For instance, Macromedia in Germany integrates social activities into its curriculum, awarding credits and certifying key competencies. NABA in Italy encourages learner involvement in local events and volunteering through partnerships and social media. UCIMED in Costa Rica focuses on providing health services to vulnerable populations, collaborating with NGOs on public health initiatives, and offering learners mentoring and volunteering opportunities.

----- PAGE 49 -----

Galileo Global Education 48Transforming society and livesSupporting learners through 
mentoring
Creating opportunities for learner 
volunteeringMentoring is vital to the success of both new and existing learners 
at GGE Schools in France. At emlyon, scholarship learners benefit from the Tremplin mentoring scheme, which is designed to guide and support them in securing a six-month internship abroad. This programme offers regular exchanges and tailored advice to meet the specific needs of each learner. Emlyon also partnered with a major NGO to provide free individual mentoring to support our learners further, addressing ongoing support and specific needs such as internships or apprenticeships. In the 2023-2024 academic year, over 1,000 learners registered on the www.dema1n.org platform through our partner, Article 1. We aim to increase registrations and strengthen mentor-mentee relationships by promoting this initiative during open days, welcome events, and through campus posters.
Promoting learner volunteering is key for our schools to support learners’ personal and professional growth while strengthening community ties. This encourages learners to apply their academic learning in real-world contexts and make a positive social impact.
In France, we have created a network of 
NGOs to give learners meaningful volunteering opportunities where they can make a real difference. For instance, at Strate School of Design in Lyon, France, we have added NGO missions to the fourth-year curriculum, requiring 40 to 60 hours of service during the 2024-2025 academic year to bring our partner network together for the common good.At NABA in Italy, we support learner volunteering and community engagement through partnerships with local organisations, encouraging participation in local events and activities. Extracurricular opportunities, such as sports and cultural events, are promoted through Student Life’s Instagram page, and collaboration with the Student Council further fosters a strong sense of community, ensuring learners actively contribute to their local environment.
“As I’m very prone to self-censorship, the mock oral exams organised 
by the non-profit ASTUCE were invaluable when I applied for entry to 
emlyon. Upon arriving at emlyon, I was determined to give back. For my 
responsible engagement, I chose to tutor learners in disadvantaged 
neighbourhoods of Lyon. We also took the learners on cultural outings, 
including trips to Paris. This unique experience, a requirement for my 
degree, made me feel truly useful. Witnessing their progress and pride 
meant a lot to me.”  — Eva, Student at emlyon.

----- PAGE 50 -----

Galileo Global Education 49Transforming society and livesCommunity engagement 
initiatives
TAI
Learners at TAI in Spain are 
actively involved in community-focused initiatives. For instance, through the Transmigrant Horizon European Project, they participate in workshops and discussions to reduce vulnerabilities in migrant communities. A cohort of learners is dedicated to creating a ‘Migrant Diary,’ a practical tool for NGOs to use when assisting migrants. Additionally, learners attend the annual AIE Conference, engaging with external researchers and artists to discuss socially relevant themes. TAI alumni have the opportunity to present their work at this conference, showcasing their contributions to social and artistic discourse. These activities highlight the learners’ commitment to community engagement and their role in driving positive change.Studi 
Studi in France is actively engaged in community service by offering free or low-cost services. Their initiatives include local and national actions such as Montpellier Reine, 24h Saint Pierre, and Digital Clean Up. They also provide free training to refugees, organise food and clothing collections for homeless people, and run the Courstache event. Additionally, Studi supports learners who cannot afford a computer by lending them one for the duration of their training. 
Paris School of Business
The Paris School of Business’sLiving Health Chair, establishedin 2020, focuses on promotinginnovative, integrative carecentered on individual well-being,particularly in oncology, incollaboration with Institut Rafaël.In November 2024, the Chairadvocated for the patientexperience in integrative healthat the French National Assembly.

----- PAGE 51 -----

Galileo Global Education 50Transforming society and livesTransforming healthcare and 
social work
Initiatives to bridge access and 
empower learners Globally, there has been a significant shortage of health professionals, social 
workers, and caregivers, leading to staff retention and recruitment crises within the healthcare system. The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the critical role these professions play in maintaining the well-being of our communities.As such, healthcare and social work represent a key and rapidly growing vertical for GGE. Our schools develop courses that provide robust technical education across various healthcare fields, emphasising practical skills. This ensures that learners are well-prepared to enter the workforce upon graduation.Moreover, community engagement is an essential component of healthcare education. It enhances access to healthcare services in local communities by offering low-income patients affordable care and providing learners with invaluable hands-on experience.
IPETH
At IPETH in Mexico, transforming society through community engagement is realised by operating clinics at each campus. These clinics provide care to patients from vulnerable socioeconomic backgrounds who lack access to public health services or cannot afford full-priced care. These clinics also serve as training grounds for learners, offering services at a nominal cost of €4. The clinics conduct approximately 1,000 daily services, highlighting Ipeth’s commitment to community impact and improving lives.UCIMED
UCIMED in Costa Rica implements various initiatives to provide care to local patients at low or no cost as part of its students’ training. Students in the Faculty of Physiotherapy offer discounted services to patients with special conditions. At the same time, those in the Faculty of Pharmacy collaborate with NGOs for safe medication disposal and support external pharmacies in maintaining high standards. Meanwhile, the Faculty of Microbiology focuses on public health education through participation in national television programmes, short informative videos on social media, and forums on sexual education for children and adolescents in vulnerable situations. Additionally, students in the Faculty of Nutrition undertake internships in schools, elderly care centres, and NGOs across different communities to provide nutritional education. These efforts collectively aim to improve healthcare access and education for vulnerable populations.
“Our work goes beyond the classroom. 
At UCIMED, we work with local 
communities to share health education 
and knowledge. UCIMED also 
contributes to public health through 
the work that our teachers and 
learners carry out in projects locally 
and in communities.” — Quote from 
María Del Carmen García González, 
Regional Business Director, UCIMED. EUC
European University Cyprusoffers free healthcare servicesto individuals who receivetreatment from their studentas part of the university’scommitment to practicalexperience. Over the pastthree years, the DentistryClinic has assisted 6,069patients free of charge, andthe Speech & Language Clinichas served 891 people withoutcost.

----- PAGE 52 -----

51 Galileo Global Education
Responsible and 
ethical business 07

----- PAGE 53 -----

Galileo Global Education 52Responsible and ethical businessIntroduction
At GGE, we are committed to upholding the highest standards of 
conduct across all operations and stakeholder interactions. Our active management of ESG risks is central to our mission of building a sustainable future.
In chapter 2 of this report, we detailed our efforts to reduce carbon 
emissions and achieve CSRD compliance, which is fundamental to our identity as a responsible and ethical business. In 2023-2024, we expanded our assessment of Scope 3 emissions to include employee commuting, business travel, and waste disposal. Despite the challenges, we remain focused on refining our reporting processes, reducing emissions, and ensuring that every step aligns with ethical practices.
Looking ahead, we will continue reducing emissions while expanding 
our portfolio. By investing in advanced data collection and reporting systems, we aim to improve our monitoring capabilities and enhance the effectiveness of our emission reduction strategies.
Our schools also prioritise responsible employment practices, 
emphasising sustainability and employee well-being. For instance, UCIMED in Costa Rica promotes health and wellness through its ‘Juntos Somos Más’ strategy and a scholarship fund. Studi in France enhances well-being with daily sports and training. Emlyon prioritises community engagement and employee development, investing €300,000 in training, supporting internal mobility, and offering comprehensive training on gender-based violence. During 2023-2024, 39% of emlyon employees benefited from these initiatives.

----- PAGE 54 -----

Galileo Global Education 53Responsible and ethical businessLowering our 
environmental impactScope 1 
emissions
Scope 3 
emissionsScope 2 emissions
Carbon footprint 
(Scope 1+2+3)We began measuring our carbon emissions in 2022 to assess 
the energy used to operate our schools and offices. We focused on Scope 1 emissions, which cover direct emissions from owned sources, and Scope 2 emissions, which include indirect emissions from purchased energy.
Then, in 2023-2024, we began addressing various Scope 3 
elements, representing all our indirect emissions produced by upstream and downstream activities such as employee commuting, business travel, waste disposal, and emissions related to the goods and services we purchased for our operations.
To validate our methodology for Scope 3 emissions, we conducted a pilot project with Regent’s University London using the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol . Data from financial accounts, travel management, waste reports, and employee commuting habits helped us accurately estimate carbon footprint and test our methodology to collect Scope 3 emissions Group-wide.Furthermore, our schools are actively working to reduce carbon emissions through various local environmental initiatives. For example, Studi has reduced its footprint by using BREEAM-certified buildings , conducting energy audits, implementing waste sorting, and promoting a bicycle policy, earning them Greenspector bronze and Pro Vélo silver labels. Additionally, they engage 40 CSR ambassadors in digital clean-up efforts. The school has also achieved the ‘RSE Engagé’ ESG label, recognising excellence in ESG monitoring activities. Additionally, emlyon in France aims for Net Zero by 2030, focusing on reducing greenhouse gases, improving energy efficiency, and eliminating waste through upcycling initiatives.Looking ahead, we aim to reduce emissions and continue to invest in data collection and reporting systems to enhance monitoring and support effective emission reduction strategies. We are committed to further reducing carbon emissions as we expand our portfolio of schools and bring 
new institutions on board with these initiative
s.1,375 t CO2eq
(+31% vs last year)
91,726 t CO2eq2,510 t CO2eq
(-16% vs last year)
95,690 t CO2eq

----- PAGE 55 -----

Galileo Global Education 54Responsible and ethical businessMeasuring our carbon 
footprint 
Energy consumption emissionsOur goal is to thoroughly audit and deepen our understanding of 
our carbon footprint, with a focus on the following key areas to explore opportunities for significant improvements: 
We are committed to accurately measuring 
and understanding our carbon emissions by meticulously tracking energy consumption across all campuses, accounting for each country’s unique energy mix. Annually, we request that each of our schools provides a detailed breakdown of their energy consumption, categorising it into three main groups: energy derived from non-renewable sources such as natural gas, oil, and coal, which directly contribute to carbon emissions; energy 
Additionally, some of our schools, like European University Cyprus and NABA, generate their own renewable energy through solar panels and geothermal power, producing 2,100,680 KwH annually, contributing to their energy consumption in a carbon-neutral way.from renewable and carbon-neutral sources; and other carbon-free energy sources. By analysing this data, we can precisely quantify the emissions from our energy usage, enabling us to implement targeted strategies to reduce our carbon footprint and contribute to a more sustainable future.
66% 11% 23%

----- PAGE 56 -----

Galileo Global Education 55Responsible and ethical businessBusiness travel emissions Employee commuting emissions
The carbon footprint from business travel was primarily 
calculated using data from our travel suppliers. For employee travel booked directly, CO2 emissions were estimated by converting total spending on train and flight travel into emissions using specific conversion factors. In cases where detailed data was unavailable, we estimated emissions based on overall travel expenses, though this method provided less accuracy.During the 2023-2024 academic year, we conducted our first comprehensive group-wide survey on employee commuting. The goal was to gather detailed data on commuting habits to understand our carbon footprint better.
We calculated the emissions using the GHG 
Protocol and emissions factors from the French ADEME database. With a 54% response rate across the Group, the survey provided valuable insights into employees’ modes of transportation. We calculated employees’ total distance travelled per working day, accounting for holidays and teleworking days for each transportation mode. These results were then extrapolated to represent all employees based on the response rate per school. 
As a result, we estimate that commuting emissions 
across the Group amounted to 5,018 tonnes of CO2, offering an important first look at our overall impact.
Our carbon emissions are estimated at 0.43 tonnes of CO2 emissions/year/employee, below the French national average of 0.7 tonnes of CO2 emissions /year/employee. 
These findings are essential for understanding our overall carbon footprint 
and pinpointing areas for improvement. 
Group-wide business travel carbon emissions Group-wide commuting carbon emissions

----- PAGE 57 -----

Galileo Global Education 56Responsible and ethical businessCreating low carbon 
campusesImpactful environmental initiatives
Our on-site campuses play a crucial role in the 
learner experience, and we are committed to ensuring they operate sustainably. As such, all schools are encouraged to manage their premises in a low-carbon, resource-efficient manner. 
Many of our schools have taken various steps 
towards improving sustainability, such as upgrading insulation to reduce heat loss, lowering building temperatures, installing energy-efficient lighting systems like LED bulbs, and utilising district cooling and heating systems.
Schools like Studi in France and TAI School 
of the Arts in Spain feature BREEAM-certified buildings. Other schools, including European University Cyprus, NABA, and Domus Academy in Italy, are certified in ISO 14001, an internationally recognised standard that provides a framework for establishing an effective Environmental Management System (EMS) to enhance environmental performance. Additionally, Istituto Marangoni’s Dubai campus is certified LEED GOLD, and we aim to achieve this standard for its new campuses in Paris (2024) and Milan (2025). Emlyon’s new Lyon campus, opening in 2024, will meet top sustainable construction standards with BREEAM and HQE certifications. This new campus will feature green spaces to promote biodiversity and revitalise the Gerland district in Lyon. It is a smart building with R2S certification, which ensures comfort, safety, and environmental performance. It also follows the ‘Connected Building, Solidarity and Human Building’ framework and holds the OsmoZ label, which focuses on improving user well-being and addressing societal challenges. Additionally, several of our schools in France have achieved the E+C label, a French certification promoting energy efficiency and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions throughout the building’s lifecycle.
Across our schools, we promote low-carbon travel 
among learners and staff. For example, UCIMED in Costa Rica has installed electric car charging stations, emlyon has introduced a responsible travel policy, IPETH in Mexico has increased bike parking facilities, and Macromedia in Germany provides public transport subsidies for its employees. NABA
NABA in Italy focuses on environmental sustainability with a geothermal plant and 98% energy-saving relamping coverage. 52% of its electricity is from renewable sources. Initiatives include calculating carbon footprint and promoting sustainable mobility. The school uses eco-friendly materials and recycles PLA waste from 3D printers. Projects aim to reduce textile lab impact through natural dyeing, water recycling, and eco-printing. Efforts include waste reduction, recycling, and optimising water consumption, emphasising sustainability and circular design.Istituto Marangoni
Istituto Marangoni prioritises reducing plastic consumption and energy use. The Milan campus increased the number of water dispensers, and employees were provided with sustainable water bottles. Recycling bins and motion sensors reduce electricity use, leading to an 11% energy reduction. The London campus has energy-efficient air conditioning and repurposes materials, while the Paris campus is relocating to a BREEAM-certified building. The Dubai campus achieved LEED GOLD certification, and the Mumbai campus uses biodegradable utensils. The Shanghai campus has a living facade to reduce heating, showcasing a commitment to low-carbon campuses.
PFH
PFH in Germany fosters social commitment and environmental sustainability by awarding credit points and the Corporate Behaviour Award for responsible behaviour. The university promotes local public transport and rail travel for members and relatives, reflecting a commitment to lowering environmental impact and upholding ethical practices.

----- PAGE 58 -----

Galileo Global Education 57Responsible and ethical businessResource use and waste 
management
Effective waste management is essential, as our campuses serve 
tens of thousands of learners and staff daily. To better understand our waste generation and recycling habits, we have included this in our Scope 3 emissions calculations.
In fact, most of our schools track their waste generation and 
recycling efforts with the help of waste management providers. On average, we found that 800 kg of waste is generated per learner annually, more than a third of which is recovered through reuse and recycling. 
In the meantime, for schools that still need to start waste tracking, we 
estimated their annual waste generation by calculating the average waste output per learner, enabling us to evaluate waste generation across the entire Group. In some regions, such as France, we faced challenges accessing data on waste generation, where municipal waste management practices have led to the absence of annual waste tonnage reports.
Lastly, we are pleased to report that all schools have implemented 
recycling and waste reduction policies. We also see many schools are phasing out plastics in food products and promoting reusable items.

----- PAGE 59 -----

Galileo Global Education 58Responsible and ethical businessResponsible 
procurement
GGE is committed to responsible procurement practices that minimise 
environmental impact. We carefully analyse each school’s financial statements, using emission factor calculations to identify significant expenditures and convert them into CO2 emissions. Additionally, we assess transportation and distribution losses by calculating energy production and the associated losses between production and consumption sites. 
To further enhance sustainable procurement, we have implemented 
processes that prioritise our purchases’ environmental and social impact alongside cost considerations. GGE collaborates with suppliers who share our commitment to sustainability and integrity. Several schools within the Group have also integrated human rights and environmental due diligence into their supply chain operations. These considerations include using more sustainable materials and construction methods, water consumption during construction and over the life cycle of the building, waste management, building climate resilience, and community impact and accessibility. We are actively working to scale these best practices across the Group, encouraging wider adoption of due diligence processes and fostering collaboration with key suppliers, all 
while ensuring regulatory compliance.

----- PAGE 60 -----

Galileo Global Education 59Responsible and ethical businessStriving to be a 
responsible company
Empowering employees 
for successInitiatives towards 
responsible employment
Our commitment to being a responsible company drives us to 
continuously empower our employees while upholding the highest standards in our operations. By fostering a positive and inclusive workplace, we take responsibility for initiatives promoting personal and professional growth, ensuring everyone can contribute meaningfully to our collective success.
As GGE continues to grow and evolve, we remain committed to our strategic objectives, particularly the empowerment and responsibility of our employees. To support this, our People Plan for 2023-2025 provides a solid framework to enhance how we manage and develop our most valuable asset — our people.One of our top priorities is investing in learning and development. This includes the launch of the Galileo Academy, which is dedicated to fostering lifelong learning among our staff. Additionally, we are embedding the Performance Development Review (PDR) process to ensure it becomes a meaningful tool for growth. Alongside this, we are improving our induction programmes, expanding leadership development opportunities, and enhancing compliance training across the board, ensuring every employee has the skills and knowledge necessary for success.Furthermore, strong leadership is essential for a thriving organisation. Thus, we are committed to developing our leaders through targeted programmes that enable GGE to operate as a high-performing unit. The ‘Galileo Way’ leadership model has been created and communicated to reinforce this, ensuring a leadership culture that aligns with our values and mission.AKAD 
AKAD University in Germany demonstrates responsible employment through various employee development initiatives. Key programmes include AKAD study programmes, external training courses, and the ‘Lunch & Learn’ series. In the 2023-2024 fiscal year, training courses in healthy leadership, conflict management, and self-care were offered.
We also recognise that fostering a diverse and inclusive environment is a moral and business imperative. Our DEI Committee actively engages colleagues and drives progress on our DEI plan. At the same time, we are committed to promoting a wellbeing culture, encouraging personal responsibility, and providing resources that support employee health and engagement.Moreover, we are dedicated to rewarding excellence through timely pay reviews and a thorough review of our pay ranges. The ongoing implementation of our ‘Workday’ system will enhance efficiency for everyone involved, further streamlining our HR processes.Our collective success relies on the responsibility each of us takes in our roles. The abovementioned initiatives are designed to foster an environment where every employee can thrive and contribute to GGE’s ongoing excellence.

----- PAGE 61 -----

Galileo Global Education 60Responsible and ethical businessRisk management 
Measuring our risks
Risk management is a critical component of our 
operations. We address financial, reputational, regulatory, and compliance risks through concrete practices, employing a Group-wide approach to identify, assess, and mitigate risks across our schools. This ensures that each school has effective risk management plans in place. 
Annual surveys evaluate schools’ risk management 
effectiveness, creating a risk matrix to prioritise key issues, including accreditation, learner health and safety, data privacy, cybersecurity, climate risks, HR risks, and 
“Effective resource management and operational efficiency hinge on robust 
financial controls. At GGE, we’ve established essential financial safeguards 
in our schools to prevent fraud, ensure sound accounting, and maintain 
financial discipline. These measures aim to optimise operations and protect 
all stakeholders, including managers, employees, and learners. Each school, 
committed to our values of accountability and responsibility, has evaluated their 
financial control maturity and developed improvement plans as necessary. To 
maintain continuous oversight, we have initiated regular audits to keep these 
financial controls at the forefront of our school’s priorities.” — Agathe Dupin-
Naton, Group’s Chief Financial Officer. third-party management. Regular meetings with schools focus on significant risks and developing action plans as needed.
Our risk management framework includes key 
mechanisms such as risk mapping, audit plans, and regular assessments. We comply with French regulations, including the Sapin II Law, and enforce a zero-tolerance policy for breaches. An internal auditor, hired in June 2024, reports directly to the board and define an internal audit plan based on critical areas of the risk map.Moreover, our risk management team visits every new school joining our network, working closely with on-site management to identify risks, plan mitigation strategies, and assess their effectiveness. We annually review the effectiveness of each school’s risk management efforts. This continuous monitoring and evolution of our risk management practices foster a culture of transformation and growth.

----- PAGE 62 -----

Galileo Global Education 61Responsible and ethical businessAnti-corruption Cyber and data security
Prioritising data privacy and complianceWe have launched a comprehensive anti-corruption programme, 
aligned with the French Sapin II Act, to ensure adherence to ethical practices across our global operations. The programme is built on eight key pillars: risk mapping, code of conduct, training, disciplinary regime, whistleblowing system, third-party due diligence, accounting controls, and internal control and audit system. 
This anti-corruption programme is designed to instil a culture 
of integrity and compliance across all levels of the organisation, reinforcing our commitment to ethical conduct in the global education sector. The programme has been rolled out in France, and we are monitoring its rollout in other countries based on considerations of the local risks and regulations. In an era of increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity threats, especially with the rise of AI, educational institutions face heightened risks. The vast amount of personal data processed and stored in our sector makes us a prime target for cybercriminals. To address these growing challenges, we are strengthening our protection practices.
During the 2023-2024 period, we completed 
business continuity preparations for our legacy institutions and integrated new ones into our contingency plans. This involved updating our risk analyses and rigorously testing our recovery capabilities to ensure critical operations and services can continue or quickly resume during major disruptions or crises.
Alongside strengthening cybersecurity, protecting data privacy and adhering to GDPR regulations remain top priorities. To support compliance, we focus on both external and internal efforts. Externally, we maintain regular vendor and contract management for new projects. Internally, we have introduced masterclasses and specialised training sessions to ensure project participants meet all compliance requirements and deliver fully compliant outcomes.We are prioritising strengthening privileged access management in the upcoming academic year. This involves updating our policies to better control, monitor, and audit the use of privileged accounts and credentials, safeguarding sensitive data and systems from unauthorised access.Additionally, we are enhancing our cybersecurity awareness training by delivering engaging learning modules, regularly conducting phishing and vulnerability tests, and performing maturity assessments. These initiatives aim to maintain vigilance and competence among our staff, teachers, and partners, reinforcing our data privacy and security commitment.We have also enhanced our regular cybersecurity maturity assessments across all institutions, making them more comprehensive and comparable. The results show positive trends in most areas while highlighting opportunities for further improvement. These insights will shape our future actions and guide the development of a best practices roadmap to strengthen our resilience and align with industry standards.
As part of our cyber risk management strategy, we 
are also preparing to expand our cyber insurance coverage. This involves thoroughly evaluating our existing mitigation measures and benchmarking against market offers and conditions to ensure we are well-protected against potential cyber threats.

----- PAGE 63 -----

62 Galileo Global Education
Looking ahead08

----- PAGE 64 -----

Galileo Global Education 63Looking aheadLooking ahead
As we reflect on the 2023-2024 academic year, GGE and our network 
of schools remain steadfast in our commitment to driving positive change in education and society. By focusing on accessibility, diversity, and innovation, we have laid a strong foundation that aligns with global sustainability goals and contributes meaningfully to the UN SDGs. Our impact strategy, guided by clear KPIs, supports our mission to advance inclusive, high-quality education while upholding the highest business ethics and integrity standards.
Looking ahead, we will continue to enhance our educational platforms, 
prioritise DEI, and ensure that all learners have the tools to succeed in an evolving world. We are committed to maintaining the well-being of our learners, empowering them for future employability, and integrating sustainability into our curriculum while ensuring economic performance. Moreover, we will inspire our schools to make the most sustainable impact they can at a local level, fostering tailored, community-driven initiatives that resonate with their unique environments.
In collaboration with our learners, staff, and partners, we will further 
strengthen community engagement, reduce our environmental impact, and ensure that GGE remains a responsible and ethical leader in higher education. Our journey is ongoing, but together, we are prepared to meet the challenges of tomorrow and continue transforming lives through education.

----- PAGE 65 -----

64 Galileo Global Education
Appendix09

----- PAGE 66 -----

Galileo Global Education 65Appendix — Our impact data reportAppendix — Our impact 
data report
We conducted our impact data reporting campaign from 3 July to 31 August 
2024, gathering data from the academic year of 2023-2024. Data was sourced from 63 schools across 116 campuses in 19 countries. 100% of our schools and campuses answered this survey, demonstrating the strongest level of engagement. Our impact data report reveals varying levels of coverage.
Looking ahead, we aim to expand our reporting 
efforts to meet upcoming regulations. We will implement substantial transformation plans to support our schools and subsidiaries in adapting to these evolving requirements, focusing on harmonising KPI definitions and standardising calculation methodologies.
The results of our impact data reporting campaign 
are outlined below.

----- PAGE 67 -----

Galileo Global Education 66Appendix — Our impact data reportCategories Categories Indicators IndicatorsReporting 
2023/24Reporting 
2023/24Reporting 
2022/23Reporting 
2022/23
GeneralNumber of 
schools63 58
GeneralNumber of 
campuses116 113
General
General
General
Enabling everyone 
to succeed
Enabling everyone 
to succeed
Enabling everyone 
to succeedNumber of 
countries spread 
across
Acquisitions made 
since inception
Acquisitions 
made during the 
reporting period
Gender split of 
students - Male
Gender split of 
students - Female
Gender split of 
students - Other19
39
5
40%
60%
0%16
34
3
38%
62%
0%
Enabling everyone 
to succeedSchools granting 
Merit-based 
scholarships63%Enabling everyone 
to succeed
Enabling everyone 
to succeed
Enabling everyone 
to succeed
Enabling everyone 
to succeed
Enabling everyone 
to succeed
Enabling everyone 
to succeed
Enabling everyone 
to succeedNumber of Merit-
based scholarships 
awarded
Amount granted 
through Merit-based 
scholarships
Average granted 
through Merit-based 
scholarships
Schools granting
income-based
scholarships
Number of Income-
based scholarships 
awarded
Amount granted 
through Income-based 
scholarships - 
Average granted 
through Income-based 
scholarships 7,053
10,775,625 €
1,527 €
47%
5,119
6,453,928 €
1,260 €7,147
8,123,933 €
1,137 €
6,048
7,502,660 €
1,455 €
Enabling everyone 
to succeed
Enabling everyone 
to succeedAmount granted 
through other types 
of scholarships
Schools
facilitating loans208,100 €
44%60,702 €

----- PAGE 68 -----

Galileo Global Education 67Appendix — Our impact data reportCategories Categories Indicators IndicatorsReporting 
2023/24Reporting 
2023/24Reporting 
2022/23Reporting 
2022/23
Enabling everyone 
to succeed
Enabling everyone 
to succeed
Enabling everyone 
to succeed
Enabling everyone 
to succeed
Enabling everyone 
to succeed
Transforming 
Education & LivesNumber of loans 
awarded
Amount granted 
through loans
Average granted 
through loans
Schools involved in
“Giving
back” practices
Number of disabled 
students
Graduate 
employability rate4,491
27,164,998 €
6,048 €
63%
4,687
79%2,200
12,011,644 €
5,460 €
15%
3,630
85%
Transforming 
Education & Lives
Transforming 
Education & Lives
Transforming 
Education & LivesStudent retention 
rate
Internship as part 
of studies
Other work 
experience as part 
of studies72%
47%
23%75%
56%
18%Transforming 
Education & Lives
Transforming 
Education & Lives
Transforming 
Education & Lives
Transforming 
Education & Lives
Transforming 
SocietyStudents starting 
their own 
businesses
Graduation rate
Percentage of 
students online
Percentage of 
students onsite
Percentage of 
sustainability-focused 
programmes17%
73%
43%
57%
12%19%
71%
44%
56%
13%
Transforming 
Society
Transforming 
Society
Transforming 
Society
Responsible 
BusinessPercentage of 
sustainability-inclusive 
programmes
Number of 
students trained on 
sustainability issues 
Number medically-
asssisted people
Total number of 
employees47%
55,768
8,599
10,17547%
41,792
7,620
8,260

----- PAGE 69 -----

Galileo Global Education 68Appendix — Our impact data reportCategories Categories Indicators IndicatorsReporting 
2023/24Reporting 
2023/24Reporting 
2022/23Reporting 
2022/23
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
BusinessFull-time 
Equivalent 
Employees
Gender split of 
employees - Male
Gender split 
of employees - 
Female
Gender split of 
employees - Other7,382
42%
57%
1%42%
56%
2%
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
BusinessPercentage of 
women in senior 
management positions
Share of women 
within 10 highest 
salaries
Schools with a
Diversity and Inclusion
strategy
Share of disabled 
employees
Schools with a
Health and safety 
policy44%
45%
79%
1.65%
89%50%
42%
65%
1.74%
82%Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
BusinessSchools taking ESG
criterias into
considerations
School with 
sustainable 
building certifications
Non-renewable 
electricity 
purchased89%
42%
5,963,617 kWh94%
46%
15,504,606 kWh
Responsible 
Business
Transforming 
Society
Transforming 
Society
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
BusinessRenewable energy 
procured 
Other carbon free 
energy procured
Number of 
Schools procuring 
renewable energy
Natural gas 
purchased
Total electricity 
consumption
Schools generating 
renewable energy17,200,056 kWh
2,906,680 kWh
89%
6,840,064 kWh
26,070,409 kWh
17%71%
5,204,218 kWh
15,504,606 kWh
17%

----- PAGE 70 -----

Galileo Global Education 69Appendix — Our impact data reportCategories Categories Indicators IndicatorsReporting 
2023/24Reporting 
2023/24Reporting 
2022/23Reporting 
2022/23
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
BusinessRenewable energy 
generated
Waste generation2,100,680 kWh
1,595 tons 499 tons
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
BusinessRecycled waste
Share of recycled 
waste
Business 
employee travels 
emissions 
Employee 
commuting 
emissions
Purchased Goods 
and Services 
emissions
Scope 1 emissions
Scope 2 emissions296 tons
36%
2,266 t CO2eq
5,018 t CO2eq
83,701 t CO2eq
1,375 t CO2eq
2,511 t CO2eq235 tons
52%
1,046 t CO2eq
2,981 t CO2eqResponsible 
BusinessScope 3 emissions 91,726 t CO2eq 
Responsible 
Business
Responsible 
BusinessCarbon footprint 
(Scope 1+2)
Carbon footprint 
(Scope 1+2+3)3,885 t CO2eq
95,612 t CO2eq4,027 t CO2eq

----- PAGE 71 -----

Galileo Global Education 70
Design by Camilla Scaramuzzi
Camilla is a soon-to-be graduate student in graphic design and art director at Naba University in Milan, Italy.
The Vision
The idea remains cleaner, scholastic, neater.  It aims to represent the institutional organization that characterizes GGE. The concept is based on order, an essential element for the harmonious functioning of large enterprises and for finding one’s way through the myriad of information. This proposal uses a composition based on squares, which will give the slide a schematic and orderly appearance. At the same time, the inclusion of GGE colors will make it creative and lively. Alternating with this rigorousness will be the use of gradients representing the carefree nature of the students, the freedom we can take when someone behind us curbs everything down to the smallest detail. Exactly how GGE takes care of its students. This gives the opportunity to experiment, to make mistakes, but most of all to grow.

----- PAGE 72 -----

